							STAR WARS

							Episode IV

							A NEW HOPE

							 From the

					 JOURNAL OF THE WHILLS

							 By

						 George Lucas

						Revised Fourth Draft

						  January 15, 1976

						LUCASFILM LTD.

					 ----------------------

A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far, away...

	A vast sea of stars serves as the backdrop for the main
	title. War drums echo through the heavens as a rollup 
	slowly crawls into infinity.

   It is a period of civil war. Rebel spaceships, striking from a
hidden base, have won their first victory against the evil Galactic
Empire.

   During the battle, Rebel spies managed to steal secret plans to the
Empire's ultimate weapon, the Death Star, an armored space station
with enough power to destroy an entire planet.

   Pursued by the Empire's sinister agents, Princess Leia races home
aboard her starship, custodian of the stolen plans that can save her
people and restore freedom to the galaxy...

	The awesome yellow planet of Tatooine emerges from a total
	eclipse, her two moons glowing against the darkness. A tiny
	silver spacecraft, a Rebel Blockade Runner firing lasers from
	the back of the ship, races through space. It is pursed by a
	giant Imperial Stardestroyer. Hundreds of deadly laserbolts
	streak from the Imperial Stardestroyer, causing the main solar
	fin of the Rebel craft to disintegrate.

INTERIOR: REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER -- MAIN PASSAGEWAY.

	An explosion rocks the ship as two robots, Artoo-Detoo (R2-D2)
	and See-Threepio (C-3PO) struggle to make their way through the
	shaking, bouncing passageway. Both robots are old and battered. 

	Artoo is a short, claw-armed tripod. His face is a mass of
	computer lights surrounding a radar eye. Threepio, on the
	other hand, is a tall, slender robot of human proportions. He
	has a gleaming bronze-like metallic surface of an Art Deco
	design. 

		 Another blast shakes them as they struggle along their
	way.

THREEPIO: Did you hear that? They've shut down the main reactor. We'll
be destroyed for sure. This is madness!

		 Rebel troopers rush past the robots and take up positions
	in the main passageway. They aim their weapons toward the door.

THREEPIO: We're doomed!

		 The little R2 unit makes a series of electronic sounds that
	only another robot could understand.

THREEPIO: There'll be no escape for the Princess this time.

		 Artoo continues making beeping sounds. Tension mounts as
	loud metallic latches clank and the scream of heavy equipment
	are heard moving around the outside hull of the ship.

THREEPIO: What's that?

EXTERIOR: SPACECRAFT IN SPACE.

	The Imperial craft has easily overtaken the Rebel Blockade
	Runner. The smaller Rebel ship is being drawn into the
	underside dock of the giant Imperial starship.

INTERIOR: REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER.

	The nervous Rebel troopers aim their weapons. Suddenly a
	tremendous blast opens up a hole in the main passageway and a
	score of fearsome armored spacesuited stormtroopers make their
	way into the smoke-filled corridor.

		 In a few minutes the entire passageway is ablaze with
	laserfire. The deadly bolts ricochet in wild random patterns
	creating huge explosions. Stormtroopers scatter and duck
	behind storage lockers. Laserbolts hit several Rebel soldiers
	who scream and stagger through the smoke, holding shattered
	arms and faces.

		 An explosion hits near the robots.

THREEPIO: I should have known better than to trust the logic of a

half-sized thermocapsulary dehousing assister...

		 Artoo counters with an angry rebuttal as the battle rages
	around the two hapless robots.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- DESERT WASTELAND -- DAY.

	A death-white wasteland stretches from horizon to horizon. The
	tremendous heat of two huge twin suns settle on a lone figure,
	Luke Skywalker, a farm boy with heroic aspirations who looks
	much younger than his eighteen years. His shaggy hair and
	baggy tunic give him the air of a simple but lovable lad with
	a prize-winning smile.

		 A light wind whips at him as he adjusts several valves on a
	large battered moisture vaporator which sticks out of the
	desert floor much like an oil pipe with valves. He is aided by
	a beatup tread-robot with six claw arms. The little robot
	appears to be barely functioning and moves with jerky motions.
	A bright sparkle in the morning sky catches Luke's eye and he
	instinctively grabs a pair of electrobinoculars from his utility
	belt. He stands transfixed for a few moments studying the
	heavens, then dashed toward his dented, crudely repaired
	Landspeeder (an auto-like transport that travels a few feet
	above the ground on a magnetic-field). He motions for the tiny
	robot to follow him.

LUKE: Hurry up! Come with me! What are you waiting for?! Get in gear!

		 The robot scoots around in a tight circle, stops short, and
	smoke begins to pour out of every joint. Luke throws his arms
	up in disgust. Exasperated, the young farm boy jumps into his
	Landspeeder leaving the smoldering robot to hum madly.

INTERIOR: REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER -- MAIN HALLWAY.

	The awesome, seven-foot-tall Dark Lord of the Sith makes his

	way into the blinding light of the main passageway. This is

	Darth Vader, right hand of the Emperor. His face is obscured

	by his flowing black robes and grotesque breath mask, which

	stands out next to the fascist white armored suits of the

	Imperial stormtroopers. Everyone instinctively backs away from

	the imposing warrior and a deathly quiet sweeps through the

	Rebel troops. Several of the Rebel troops break and run in a

	frenzied panic.

INTERIOR: REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER.

	A woman's hand puts a card into an opening in Artoo's dome.

	Artoo makes beeping sounds.

INTERIOR: REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER.

	Threepio stands in a hallway, somewhat bewildered. Artoo is

	nowhere in sight. The pitiful screams of the doomed Rebel

	soldiers can be heard in the distance.

THREEPIO: Artoo! Artoo-Detoo, where are you?

		 A familiar clanking sound attacks Threepio's attention and

	he spots little Artoo at the end of the hallway in a

	smoke-filled alcove. A beautiful young girl (about sixteen

	years old) stands in front of Artoo. Surreal and out of place,

	dreamlike and half hidden in the smoke, she finishes adjusting

	something on Artoo's computer face, then watches as the little

	robot joins his companion.

THREEPIO: At last! Where have you been?

	Stormtroopers can be heard battling in the distance.

THREEPIO: They're heading in this direction. What are we going to do?

We'll be sent to the spice mine of Kessel or smashed into who knows

what!

		 Artoo scoots past his bronze friend and races down the

	subhallway. Threepio chases after him.

THREEPIO: Wait a minute, where are you going?

		 Artoo responds with electronic beeps.

INTERIOR: REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER -- CORRIDOR

	The evil Darth Vader stands amid the broken and twisted bodies

	of his foes. He grabs a wounded Rebel Officer by the neck as

	an Imperial Officer rushes up to the Dark Lord.

IMPERIAL OFFICER: The Death Star plans are not in the main computer.

		 Vader squeezes the neck of the Rebel Officer, who struggles

	in vain.

VADER: Where are those transmissions you intercepted?

		 Vader lifts the Rebel off his feet by his throat.

VADER: What have you done with those plans?

REBEL OFFICER: We intercepted no transmissions. Aaah....This is a

consular ship. Were on a diplomatic mission.

VADER: If this is a consular ship...were is the Ambassador?

		 The Rebel refuses to speak but eventually cries out as the

	Dark Lord begins to squeeze the officer's throat, creating a

	gruesome snapping and choking, until the soldier goes limp.

	Vader tosses the dead soldier against the wall and turns to

	his troops.

VADER: Commander, tear this ship apart until you've found those plans

and bring me the Ambassador. I want her alive!

		 The stormtroopers scurry into the subhallways.

INTERIOR: REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER -- SUBHALLWAY.

	The lovely young girl huddles in a small alcove as the

	stormtroopers search through the ship. She is Princess Leia

	Organa, a member of the Alderaan Senate. The fear in her eyes

	slowly gives way to anger as the muted crushing sounds of the

	approaching stormtroopers grow louder. One of the troopers

	spots her.

TROOPER: There she is! Set for stun!

		 Leia steps from her hiding place and blasts a trooper with

	her laser pistol. She starts to run but is felled by a

	paralyzing ray. The troopers inspect her inert body.

TROOPER: She'll be all right. Inform Lord Vader we have a prisoner.

INTERIOR: REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER -- SUBHALLWAY.

	Artoo stops before the small hatch of an emergency lifepod. He

	snaps the seal on the main latch and a red warning light

	begins to flash. The stubby astro-robot works his way into the

	cramped four-man pod.

THREEPIO: Hey, you're not permitted in there. It's restricted. You'll

be deactivated for sure..

		 Artoo beeps something to him.

THREEPIO: Don't call me a mindless philosopher, you overweight glob of

grease! Now come out before somebody sees you.

		 Artoo whistles something at his reluctant friend regarding

	the mission he is about to perform.

THREEPIO: Secret mission? What plans? What are you talking about? I'm

not getting in there!

		 Artoo isn't happy with Threepio's stubbornness, and he beeps

	and twangs angrily.

	A new explosion, this time very close, sends dust and debris

	through the narrow subhallway. Flames lick at Threepio and,

	after a flurry of electronic swearing from Artoo, the lanky

	robot jumps into the lifepod.

THREEPIO: I'm going to regret this.

INTERIOR: IMPERIAL STARDESTROYER.

	On the main viewscreen, the lifepod carrying the two terrified

	robots speeds away from the stricken Rebel spacecraft.

CHIEF PILOT: There goes another one.

CAPTAIN: Hold your fire. There are no life forms. It must have been

short-circuited.

INTERIOR: LIFEPOD.

	Artoo and Threepio look out at the receding Imperial starship.

	Stars circle as the pod rotates through the galaxy.

THREEPIO: That's funny, the damage doesn't look as bad from out here.

	Artoo beeps an assuring response.

THREEPIO: Are you sure this things safe?

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- ANCHORHEAD SETTLEMENT -- POWER STATION -- DAY.

	Heat waves radiate from the dozen or so bleached white

	buildings. Luke pilots his Landspeeder through the dusty empty

	street of the tiny settlement. An old woman runs to get out of

	the way of the speeding vehicle, shaking her fist at Luke as

	he flies past.

WOMAN: I've told you kids to slow down!

INTERIOR: POWER STATION -- DAY.

	Luke bursts into the power station, waking The Fixer, a rugged

	mechanic and Camie, a sexy, disheveled girl who has been

	asleep in his lap. They grumbled as he races through the

	office, yelling wildly.

FIXER: Did I hear a young noise blast through here?

CAMIE: It was just wormie on another rampage.

		 Luke bounces into a small room behind the office where Deak

	and Windy, two tough boys about the same age as Luke, are

	playing a computer pool-like game with Biggs, a burly,

	handsome boy a few years older than the rest. His flashy city

	attire is a sharp contrast to the loose-fitting tunics of the

	farm boys. A robot repairs some equipment in the background.

LUKE: Shape it up you guys!.... Biggs?

		 Luke's surprise at the appearance of Biggs gives way to

	great joy and emotion. They give each other a great bear hug.

LUKE: I didn't know you were back! When did you get in?

BIGGS: Just now. I wanted to surprise you, hot shot. I thought you'd be

here...certainly didn't expect you to be out working. (he laughs.)

LUKE: The Academy didn't change you much...but you're back so soon?

Hey, what happened, didn't you get your commission?

		 Biggs has an air of cool that seems slightly phony.

BIGGS: Of course I got it. Signed aboard The Rand Ecliptic last week.

First mate Biggs Darklighter at your service...(he salutes)...I just

came to say good-bye to all you unfortunate landlocked simpletons.

		 Everyone laughs. The dazzling spectacle of his dashing

	friend is almost too much for Luke, but suddenly he snaps out

	of it.

LUKE: I almost forgot. There's a battle going on! Right here in our

system. Come and look!

DEAK: Not again! Forget it.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- ANCHORHEAD -- SETTLEMENT -- POWER STATION -- DAY.

	The group stumbles out into the stifling desert sun. Camie and

	The Fixer complain and are forced to shade their eyes. Luke

	has his binoculars out scanning the heavens.

LUKE: There they are!

		 Biggs takes the binoculars from Luke as the others strain

	to see something with the naked eye. Through the binoculars

	Biggs sees two small silver specks.

BIGGS: That's no battle, hot shot...they're just sitting there!

Probably a freighter-tanker refueling.

LUKE: But there was a lot of firing earlier...

		 Camie grabs the binoculars away banging them against the

	building in the process. Luke grabs them.

LUKE: Hey, easy with those...

CAMIE: Don't worry about it, Wormie.

		 The Fixer gives Luke a hard look and the young farm boy

	shrugs his shoulders in resignation.

FIXER: I keep telling you, the Rebellion is a long way from here. I

doubt if the Empire would even fight to keep this system. Believe me

Luke, this planet is a big hunk of nothing...

		 Luke agrees, although it's obvious he isn't sure why. The

	group stumbles back into the power station, grumbling about

	Luke's ineptitude.

INTERIOR: REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER -- HALLWAY

	Princess Leia is led down a low-ceilinged hallway by a squad

	of armored stormtroopers. Her hands are bound and she is

	brutally shoved when she is unable to keep up with the briskly

	marching troops. They stop in a smoky hallway as Darth Vader

	emerges from the shadows. The sinister Dark Lord stares hard

	at the frail young senator, but she doesn't move.

LEIA: Lord Vader, I should have known. Only you could be so bold. The

Imperial Senate will not sit for this, when they hear you've attacked

a diplomatic...

VADER: Don't play games with me, Your Highness. You weren't on any

mercy mission this time. You passed directly through a restricted

system. Several transmissions were beamed to this ship by Rebel spies.

I want to know what happened to the plans they sent you.

LEIA: I don't know what you're talking about. I'm a member of the

Imperial Senate on a diplomatic mission to Alderaan...

VADER: You're a part of the Rebel Alliance...and a traitor. Take her

away!

		 Leia is marched away down the hallway and into the

	smoldering hole blasted in the side of the ship. An Imperial

	Commander turns to Vader.

COMMANDER: Holding her is dangerous. If word of this gets out, it

could generate sympathy for the Rebellion in the senate.

VADER: I have traced the Rebel spies to her. Now she is my only link

to find their secret base!

COMMANDER: She'll die before she tells you anything.

VADER: Leave that to me. Send a distress signal and then inform the

senate that all aboard were killed!

		 Another Imperial Officer approaches Vader and the

	Commander. They stop and snap to attention.

SECOND OFFICER: Lord Vader, the battle station plans are not aboard

this ship! And no transmissions were made. An escape pod was

jettisoned during the fighting, but no life forms were aboard.

		 Vader turns to the Commander.

VADER: She must have hidden the plans in the escape pod. Send a

detachment down to retrieve them. See to it personally, Commander.

There'll be no one to stop us this time.

COMMANDER: Yes, sir.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	The Imperial Stardestroyer comes over the surface of the

	planet Tatooine.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- DESERT.

	Jundland, or "No Man's Land", where the rugged desert mesas

	meet the foreboding dune sea. The two helpless astro-droids

	kick up clouds of sand as they leave the lifepod and clumsily

	work their way across the desert wasteland. The lifepod in the

	distance rests half buried in the sand.

THREEPIO: How did I get into this mess? I really don't know how. We

seem to be made to suffer. It's our lot in life.

		 Artoo answers with beeping sounds.

THREEPIO: I've got to rest before I fall apart. My joints are almost

frozen. 

		 Artoo continues to respond with beeping sounds.

THREEPIO: What a desolate place this is.

		 Suddenly Artoo whistles, makes a sharp right turn and

	starts off in the direction of the rocky desert mesas. Threepio

	stops and yells at him.

THREEPIO: Where are you going?

		 A stream of electronic noises pours forth from the small

	robot.

THREEPIO: Well, I'm not going that way. It's much too rocky. This way

is much easier.

		 Artoo counters with a long whistle.

THREEPIO: What makes you think there are settlements over there?

		 Artoo continues to make beeping sounds.

THREEPIO: Don't get technical with me.

		 Artoo continues to make beeping sounds.

THREEPIO: What mission? What are you talking about? I've had just

about enough of you! Go that way! You'll be malfunctioning within a

day, you nearsighted scrap pile!

		 Threepio gives the little robot a kick and starts off in

	the direction of the vast dune sea.

THREEPIO: And don't let me catch you following me begging for help,

because you won't get it.

		 Artoo's reply is a rather rude sound. He turns and trudges

	off in the direction of the towering mesas.


THREEPIO: No more adventures. I'm not going that way.

		 Artoo beeps to himself as he makes his way toward the

	distant mountains.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- DUNE SEA.

	Threepio, hot and tired, struggles up over the ridge of a dune;

	only to find more dunes, which seem to go on for endless

	miles.  He looks back in the direction of the now distant rock

	mesas. 

THREEPIO: That malfunctioning little twerp. This is all his fault! He

tricked me into going this way, but he'll do no better.

		 In a huff of anger and frustration, Threepio knocks the

	sand from his joints. His plight seems hopeless, when a glint

	of reflected light in the distance reveals an object moving

	towards him.

THREEPIO: Wait, what's that? A transport! I'm saved!

		 The bronze android waves frantically and yells at the

	approaching transport.

THREEPIO: Over here! Help! Please, help!

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- ANCHORHEAD SETTLEMENT -- POWER STATION -- DAY.

	Luke and Biggs are walking and drinking a malt brew. Fixer and

	the others can be heard working inside.

LUKE: (Very animated)...so I cut off my power, shut down the

afterburners and came in low on Deak's trail. I was so close I thought

I was going to fry my instruments. As it was I busted up the Skyhopper

pretty bad. Uncle Owen was pretty upset. He grounded me for the rest

of the season. You should have been there...it was fantastic.

BIGGS: You ought to take it easy Luke. You may be the hottest

bushpilot this side of Mos Eisley, but those little Skyhoppers are

dangerous. Keep it up, and one day, whammo, you're going to be nothing

more than a dark spot on the down side of a canyon wall.

LUKE: Look who's talking. Now that you've been around those giant

starships you're beginning to sound like my uncle. You've gotten soft

in the city...

BIGGS: I've missed you kid.

LUKE: Well, things haven't been the same since you left, Biggs. It's

been so...quiet.

		 Biggs looks around then leans close to Luke.

BIGGS: Luke, I didn't come back just to say good-bye...I shouldn't

tell you this, but you're the only one I can trust...and if I don't

come back, I want somebody to know.

		 Luke's eyes are wide with Biggs' seriousness and loyalty.

LUKE: What are you talking about?

BIGGS: I made some friends at the Academy. (he whispers)...when our

frigate goes to one of the central systems, we're going to jump ship

and join the Alliance...

		 Luke, amazed and stunned, is almost speechless.

LUKE: Join the Rebellion?! Are you kidding! How?

BIGGS: Quiet down will ya! You got a mouth bigger than a meteor

crater!

LUKE: I'm sorry. I'm quiet. (he whispers) Listen how quiet I am. You

can barely hear me...

		 Biggs shakes his head angrily and then continues.

BIGGS: My friend has a friend on Bestine who might help us make

contact.

LUKE: Your crazy! You could wander around forever trying to find them.

BIGGS: I know it's a long shot, but if I don't find them I'll do what

I can on my own...It's what we always talked about. Luke, I'm not

going to wait for the Empire to draft me into service. The Rebellion

is spreading and I want to be on the right side -- the side I believe

in. 

LUKE: And I'm stuck here...

BIGGS: I thought you were going to the Academy next term. You'll get

your chance to get off this rock.

LUKE: Not likely! I had to cancel my application. There has been a lot

of unrest among the Sandpeople since you left...they've even raided

the outskirts of Anchorhead.

BIGGS: Your uncle could hold off a whole colony of Sandpeople with one

blaster.

LUKE: I know, but he's got enough vaporators going to make the place

pay off. He needs me for just one more season. I can't leave him now.

BIGGS: I feel for you, Luke, you're going to have to learn what seems

to be important or what really is important. What good is all your

uncle's work if it's taken over by the Empire?...You know they're

starting to nationalize commerce in the central systems...it won't be

long before your uncle is merely a tenant, slaving for the greater

glory of the Empire.

LUKE: It couldn't happen here. You said it yourself. The Empire won't

bother with this rock.

BIGGS: Things always change.

LUKE: I wish I was going...Are you going to be around long? 

BIGGS: No, I'm leaving in the morning...

LUKE: Then I guess I won't see you.

BIGGS: Maybe someday...I'll keep a lookout.

LUKE: Well, I'll be at the Academy next season...after that who knows.

I won't be drafted into the Imperial Starfleet that's for sure...Take

care of yourself, you'll always be the best friend I've got.

BIGGS: So long, Luke.

		 Biggs turns away from his old friend and heads towards the

	power station.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- ROCK CANYON -- SUNSET.

	The gargantuan rock formations are shrouded in a strange

	foreboding mist and the onimous sounds of unearthly creatures

	fill the air. Artoo moves cautiously through the creepy rock

	canyon, inadvertently making a loud clicking noise as he goes.

	He hears a distant, hard, metallic sound and stops for a

	moment. Convinced he is alone, he continues on his way.

		 In the distance, a pepple tumbles down the steep canyon

	wall and a small dark figure darts into the shadows. A little

	further up the canyon a slight flicker of light reveals a pair

	of eyes in the dark recesses only a few feet from the narrow

	path.

		 The unsuspecting robot waddles along the rugged trail until

	suddenly, out of nowhere, a powerful magnetic ray shoots out

	of the rocks and engulfs him in an eerie glow. He manages one

	short electronic squeak before he topples over onto his back.

	His bright computer lights flicker off, then on, then off

	again. Out of the rocks scurry three Jawas, no taller than

	Artoo. They holster strange and complex weapons as they

	cautiously approach the robot. They wear grubby cloaks and

	their faces are shrouded so only their glowing eyes can be

	seen. They hiss and make odd guttural sounds as they heave the

	heavy robot onto their shoulders and carry him off down the

	trail. 

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- ROCK CANYON -- SANDCRAWLER -- SUNSET.

	The eight Jawas carry Artoo out of the canyon to a huge

	tank-like vehicle the size of a four-story house. They weld a

	small disk on the side of Artoo and then put him under a large

	tube on the side of the vehicle and the little robot is sucked

	into the giant machine.

		 The filthy little Jawas scurry like rats up small ladders

	and enter the main cabin of the behemoth transport.

INTERIOR: SANDCRAWLER -- HOLD AREA.

	It is dim inside the hold area of the Sandcrawler. Artoo

	switches on a small floodlight on his forehead and stumbles

	around the scrap heap. The narrow beam swings across rusty

	metal rocket parts and an array of grotesquely twisted and

	maimed astro-robots. He lets out a pathetic electronic whimper

	and stumbles off toward what appears to be a door at the end

	of the chamber.

INTERIOR: SANDCRAWLER -- PRISON AREA.

	Artoo enters a wide room with a four-foot ceiling. In the

	middle of the scrap heap sit a dozen or so robots of various

	shapes and sizes. Some are engaged in electronic conversation,

	while others simply mill about. A voice of recognition calls

	out from the gloom.

THREEPIO: Artoo-Detoo! It's you! It's you!

		 A battered Threepio scrambles up to Artoo and embraces him.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- ROCK CANYON -- SANDCRAWLER -- SUNSET.

	The enormous Sandcrawler lumbers off toward the magnificent

	twin suns, which are slowly setting over a distant mountain

	ridge.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- DESERT -- DAY.

	Four Imperial stormtroopers mill about in front of the half-

	buried lifepod that brought Artoo and Threepio to Tatooine. A

	trooper yells to an officer some distance away.

FIRST TROOPER: Someone was in the pod. The tracks go off in this

direction. 

		 A second trooper picks a small bit of metal out of the sand

	and gives it to the first trooper.

SECOND TROOPER: Look, sir -- droids.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- DUNES.

	The Sandcrawler moves slowly down a great sand dune.

INTERIOR: SANDCRAWLER.

	Threepio and Artoo noisily bounce along inside the cramped

	prison chamber. Artoo appears to be shut off.

THREEPIO: Wake up! Wake up!

		 Suddenly the shaking and bouncing of the Sandcrawler stops,

	creating quite a commotion among the mechanical men.

	Threepio's fist bangs the head of Artoo whose computer lights

	pop on as he begins beeping. At the far end of the long

	chamber a hatch opens, filling the chamber with blinding white

	light. a dozen or so Jawas make their way through the odd

	assortment of robots.

THREEPIO: We're doomed.

		 A Jawa starts moving toward them.

THREEPIO: Do you think they'll melt us down?

		 Artoo responds, making beeping sounds.

THREEPIO: Don't shoot! Don't shoot! Will this never end?

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- DESERT -- LARS HOMESTEAD -- AFTERNOON.

	The Jawas mutter gibberish as they busily line up their

	battered captives, including Artoo and Threepio, in front of

	the enormous Sandcrawler, which is parked beside a small

	homestead consisting of three large holes in the ground

	surrounded by several tall moisture vaporators and one small

	adobe block house.

		 The Jawas scurry around fussing over the robots,

	straightening them up or brushing some dust from a dented

	metallic elbow. The shrouded little creatures smell horribly,

	attracting small insects to the dark areas when their mouths

	and nostrils should be.

		 Out of the shadows of a dingy side-building limps Owen

	Lars, a large burly man in his mid-fifties. His reddish eyes

	are sunken in a dust-covered face. As the farmer carefully

	inspects each robot, he is closely followed by his slump-

	shouldered nephew, Luke Skywalker. One of the vile little

	Jawas walks ahead of the farmer spouting an animated sales

	pitch in a queer, unintelligible language.

		 A voice calls out from one of the huge holes that form the

	homestead. Luke goes over to the edge and sees his Aunt Beru

	standing in the main courtyard.

BERU: Luke, tell Owen that if he gets a translator to be sure it

speaks Bocce.

LUKE: It looks like we don't have much of a choice but I'll remind

him.

		 Luke returns to his uncle as they look over the equipment

	for sale with the Jawa leader.

OWEN: I have no need for a protocol droid.

THREEPIO: (quickly) Sir -- not in an environment such as this --

that's why I've also been programmed for over thirty secondary

functions that...

OWEN: What I really need is a droid that understands the binary

language of moisture vaporators.

THREEPIO: Vaporators! Sir -- My first job was programming binary load

lifter...very similar to your vaporators. You could say...

OWEN: Do you speak Bocce?

THREEPIO: Of course I can, sir. It's like a second language for

me...I'm as fluent in Bocce...

OWEN: All right shut up! (turning to Jawa) I'll take this one.

THREEPIO: Shutting up, sir.

OWEN: Luke, take these two over to the garage, will you? I want you to

have both of them cleaned up before dinner.

LUKE: But I was going into Toshi Station to pick up some power

converters...

OWEN: You can waste time with your friends when your chores are done.

Now come on, get to it!

LUKE: All right, come on! And the red one, come on. Well, come on,

Red, let's go.

		 As the Jawas start to lead the three remaining robots

	back into the Sandcrawler, Artoo lets out a pathetic little

	beep and starts after his old friend Threepio. He is

	restrained by a slimy Jawa, who zaps him with a control box.

		 Owen is negotiating with the head Jawa. Luke and the two

	robots start off for the garage when a plate pops off the head

	of the red astro-droid's head plate and it sparks wildly.

LUKE: Uncle Owen...

OWEN: Yeah?

LUKE: This R2 unit has a bad motivator. Look!

OWEN: (to the head Jawa) Hey, what're you trying to push on us?

		 The Jawa goes into a loud spiel. Meanwhile, Artoo has

	sneaked out of line and is moving up and down trying to

	attract attention. He lets out with a low whistle. Threepio

	taps Luke on the shoulder.

THREEPIO: (pointing to Artoo) Excuse me, sir, but that R2 unit is in

prime condition. A real bargain.

LUKE: Uncle Owen...

OWEN: Yeah?

LUKE: What about that one?

OWEN: (to Jawa) What about that blue one? We'll take that one.

		 With a little reluctance the scruffy dwarf trades the

	damaged astro-droid for Artoo.

LUKE: Yeah, take it away.

THREEPIO: Uh, I'm quite sure you'll be very pleased with that one,

sir. He really is in first-class condition. I've worked with him

before. Here he comes.

		 Owen pays off the whining Jawa as Luke and the two robots

	trudge off toward a grimy homestead entry.

LUKE: Okay, let's go.

THREEPIO: (to Artoo) Now, don't you forget this! Why I should stick my

neck out for you is quite beyond my capacity!

INTERIOR: LARS HOMESTEAD -- GARAGE AREA -- LATE AFTERNOON.

	The garage is cluttered and worn, but a friendly peaceful

	atmosphere permeates the low grey chamber. Threepio lowers

	himself into a large tub filled with warm oil. Near the

	battered Landspeeder little Artoo rests on a large battery

	with a cord to his face.

THREEPIO: Thank the maker! This oil bath is going to feel so good.

I've got such a bad case of dust contamination, I can barely move!

		 Artoo beeps a muffled reply. Luke seems to be lost in

	thought as he runs his hand over the damaged fin of a small

	two-man Skyhopper spaceship resting in a low hangar off the

	garage. Finally Luke's frustrations get the better of him and

	he slams a wrench across the workbench.

LUKE: It just isn't fair. Oh, Biggs is right. I'm never gonna get out

of here!

THREEPIO: Is there anything I might do to help? 

		 Luke glances at the battered robot. A bit of his anger

	drains and a tiny smile creeps across his face.

LUKE: Well, not unless you can alter time, speed up the harvest, or

teleport me off this rock!

THREEPIO: I don't think so, sir. I'm only a droid and not very

knowledgeable about such things. Not on this planet, anyways. As a

matter of fact, I'm not even sure which planet I'm on.

LUKE: Well, if there's a bright center to the universe, you're on the

planet that it's farthest from.

THREEPIO: I see, sir.

LUKE: Uh, you can call me Luke.

THREEPIO: I see, sir Luke.

LUKE: (laughing) Just Luke.

THREEPIO: And I am See-Threepio, human-cyborg relations, and this is

my counterpart, Artoo-Detoo.

LUKE: Hello.

		 Artoo beeps in response. Luke unplugs Artoo and begins to

	scrape several connectors on the robot's head with a chrome


	pick. Threepio climbs out of the oil tub and begins wiping oil

	from his bronze body.

LUKE: You got a lot of carbon scoring here. It looks like you boys

have seen a lot of action.

THREEPIO: With all we've been through, sometimes I'm amazed we're in

as good condition as we are, what with the Rebellion and all.

LUKE: You know of the Rebellion against the Empire?

THREEPIO: That's how we came to be in your service, if you take my

meaning, sir.

LUKE: Have you been in many battles?

THREEPIO: Several, I think. Actually, there's not much to tell. I'm

not much more than an interpreter, and not very good at telling

stories. Well, not at making them interesting, anyways.

		 Luke struggles to remove a small metal fragment from Artoo's

	neck joint. He uses a larger pick.

LUKE: Well, my little friend, you've got something jammed in here real

good. Were you on a cruiser or...

		 The fragment breaks loose with a snap, sending Luke

	tumbling head over heels. He sits up and sees a twelve-inch

	three-dimensional hologram of Leia Organa, the Rebel senator,

	being projected from the face of little Artoo. The image is a

	rainbow of colors as it flickers and jiggles in the dimly lit

	garage. Luke's mouth hangs open in awe.

LEIA: Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi. You're my only hope.

LUKE: What's this?

		 Artoo looks around and sheepishly beeps an answer for

	Threepio to translate. Leia continues to repeat the sentence

	fragment over and over.

THREEPIO: What is what?!? He asked you a question...(pointing to Leia)

What is that?

		 Artoo whistles his surprise as he pretends to just notice

	the hologram. He looks around and sheepishly beeps an answer

	for Threepio to translate. Leia continues to repeat the

	sentence fragment over and over.

LEIA: Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi. You're my only hope. Help me, Obi-Wan

Kenobi. You're my only hope.

THREEPIO: Oh, he says it's nothing, sir. Merely a malfunction. Old


data. Pay it no mind.

		 Luke becomes intrigued by the beautiful girl.

LUKE: Who is she? She's beautiful.

THREEPIO: I'm afraid I'm not quite sure, sir.

LEIA: Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi...

THREEPIO: I think she was a passenger on our last voyage. A person of

some importance, sir -- I believe. Our captain was attached to...

LUKE: Is there more to this recording?

		 Luke reaches out for Artoo but he lets out several frantic

	squeaks and a whistle.

THREEPIO: Behave yourself, Artoo. You're going to get us in trouble.

It's all right, you can trust him. He's our new master.

		 Artoo whistles and beeps a long message to Threepio.

THREEPIO: He says he's the property of Obi-Wan Kenobi, a resident of

these parts. And it's a private message for him. Quite frankly, sir I

don't know what he's talking about. Our last master was Captain

Antilles, but with what we've been through, this little R2 unit has

become a bit eccentric.

LUKE: Obi-Wan Kenobi? I wonder if he means old Ben Kenobi?

THREEPIO: I beg your pardon, sir, but do you know what he's talking

about?

LUKE: Well, I don't know anyone named Obi-Wan, but old Ben lives out

beyond the dune sea. He's kind of a strange old hermit.

		 Luke's gazes at the beautiful young princess for a few

	moments. 

LUKE: I wonder who she is. It sounds like she's in trouble. I'd better

play back the whole thing.

		 Artoo beeps something to Threepio.

THREEPIO: He says the restraining bolt has short circuited his

recording system. He suggests that if you remove the bolt, he might be

able to play back the entire recording.

		 Luke looks longingly at the lovely, little princess and

	hasn't really heard what Threepio has been saying.

LUKE: H'm? Oh, yeah, well, I guess you're too small to run away on me

if I take this off! Okay.

		 Luke takes a wedged bar and pops the restraining bolt off

	Artoo's side.

LUKE: There you go.

		 The princess immediately disappears...

LUKE: Well, wait a minute. Where'd she go? Bring her back! Play back

the entire message.

		 Artoo beeps an innocent reply as Threepio sits up in

	embarrassment.

THREEPIO: What message? The one you're carrying inside your rusty

innards! 

		 A women's voice calls out from another room.

AUNT BERU: Luke? Luke! Come to dinner!

		 Luke stands up and shakes his head at the malfunctioning

	robot.

LUKE: All right, I'll be right there, Aunt Beru.

THREEPIO: I'm sorry, sir, but he appears to have picked up a slight

flutter.

		 Luke tosses Artoo's restraining bolt on the workbench and

	hurries out of the room.

LUKE: Well, see what you can do with him. I'll be right back.

THREEPIO: (to Artoo) Just you reconsider playing that message for him.

		 Artoo beeps in response.

THREEPIO: No, I don't think he likes you at all.

		 Artoo beeps.

THREEPIO: No, I don't like you either.

INTERIOR: LARS HOMESTEAD -- DINING AREA.

	 Luke's Aunt Beru, a warm, motherly woman, fills a pitcher

	with blue fluid from a refrigerated container in the well-used

	kitchen. She puts the pitcher on a tray with some bowls of

	food and starts for the dining area.

		 Luke sits with his Uncle Owen before a table covered with

	steaming bowls of food as Aunt Beru carries in a bowl of red

	grain.

LUKE: You know, I think that R2 unit we bought might have been stolen.

OWEN: What makes you think that?

LUKE: Well, I stumbled across a recording while I was cleaning him. He

says he belongs to someone called Obi-Wan Kenobi.

		 Owen is greatly alarmed at the mention of his name, but

	manages to control himself.

LUKE: I thought he might have meant old Ben. Do you know what he's

talking about? Well, I wonder if he's related to Ben.

		 Owen breaks loose with a fit of uncontrolled anger.

OWEN: That old man's just a crazy old wizard. Tomorrow I want you to

take that R2 unit into Anchorhead and have its memory flushed. That'll

be the end of it. It belongs to us now.

LUKE: But what if this Obi-Wan comes looking for him?

OWEN: He won't, I don't think he exists any more. He died about the

same time as your father.

LUKE: He knew my father?

OWEN: I told you to forget it. Your only concern is to prepare the new

droids for tomorrow. In the morning I want them on the south ridge

working out those condensers.

LUKE: Yes, sir. I think those new droids are going to work out fine.

In fact, I, uh, was also thinking about our agreement about my staying

on another season. And if these new droids do work out, I want to

transmit my application to the Academy this year.

		 Owen's face becomes a scowl, although he tries to suppress

	it.

OWEN: You mean the next semester before harvest?

LUKE: Sure, there're more than enough droids.

OWEN: Harvest is when I need you the most. Only one more season. This

year we'll make enough on the harvest so I'll be able to hire some

more hands. And then you can go to the Academy next year.

		 Luke continues to toy with his food, not looking at his

	uncle.

OWEN: You must understand I need you here, Luke.

LUKE: But it's a whole 'nother year.

OWEN: Look, it's only one more season.

		 Luke pushes his half-eaten plate of food aside and stands.

LUKE: Yeah, that's what you said last year when Biggs and Tank left.

AUNT BERU: Where are you going?

LUKE: It looks like I'm going nowhere. I have to finish cleaning those

droids.

		 Resigned to his fate, Luke paddles out of the room. Owen

	mechanically finishes his dinner.

AUNT BERU: Owen, he can't stay here forever. Most of his friends have

gone. It means so much to him.

OWEN: I'll make it up to him next year. I promise.

AUNT BERU: Luke's just not a farmer, Owen. He has too much of his

father in him.

OWEN: That's what I'm afraid of.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- LARS HOMESTEAD.

	The giant twin suns of Tatooine slowly disappear behind a

	distant dune range. Luke stands watching them for a few

	moments, then reluctantly enters the doomed entrance to the

	homestead.

INTERIOR: LARS HOMESTEAD -- GARAGE.

		 Luke enters the garage to discover the robots nowhere in

	sight. He takes a small control box from his utility belt

	similar to the one the Jawas were carrying. He activates the

	box, which creates a low hum, and Threepio, letting out a

	short yell, pops up from behind the Skyhopper spaceship.

LUKE: What are you doing hiding there?

		 Threepio stumbles forward, but Artoo is still nowhere in

	sight. 

THREEPIO: It wasn't my fault, sir. Please don't deactivate me. I told

him not to go, but he's faulty, malfunctioning; kept babbling on about

his mission.

LUKE: Oh, no!

	Luke races out of the garage followed by Threepio.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- LARS HOMESTEAD.

	Luke rushes out of the small doomed entry to the homestead and

	searches the darkening horizon for the small triped astro-

	robot. Threepio struggles out of the homestead and on the salt

	flat as Luke scans the landscape with his electrobinoculars.

THREEPIO: That R2 unit has always been a problem. These astro-droids

are getting quite out of hand. Even I can't understand their logic at

times. 

LUKE: How could I be so stupid? He's nowhere in sight. Blast it!

THREEPIO: Pardon me, sir, but couldn't we go after him?

LUKE: It's too dangerous with all the Sandpeople around. We'll have to

wait until morning.

		 Owen yells up from the homestead plaza.

OWEN: Luke, I'm shutting the power down for the night.

LUKE: All right, I'll be there in a few minutes. Boy, am I gonna get it.

	He takes one final look across the dim horizon.

LUKE: You know that little droid is going to cause me a lot of

trouble.

THREEPIO: Oh, he excels at that, sir.

INTERIOR: LARS HOMESTEAD -- PLAZA.

	Morning slowly creeps into the sparse but sparkling oasis of

	the open courtyard. The idyll is broken be the yelling of

	Uncle Owen, his voice echoing throughout the homestead.

OWEN: Luke? Luke? Luke? Where could he be loafing now!

INTERIOR: LARS HOMESTEAD -- KITCHEN.

	The interior of the kitchen is a worm glow as Aunt Beru prepares

	the morning breakfast. Owen enters in a huff.

OWEN: Have you seen Luke this morning?

AUNT BERU: He said he had some things to do before he started today,

so he left early.

OWEN: Uh? Did he take those two new droids with him?

AUNT BERU: I think so.

OWEN: Well, he'd better have those units in the south range repaired

be midday or there'll be hell to pay!

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- DESERT WASTELAND -- LUKE'S SPEEDER -- DAY.

	The rock and sand of the desert floor are a blur as Threepio

	pilots the sleek Landspeeder gracefully across the vast

	wasteland. 

INTERIOR/EXTERIOR: LUKE'S SPEEDER -- DESERT WASTELAND -- TRAVELING -- DAY.

	Luke leans over the back of the speeder and adjusts something

	in the motor compartment.

LUKE: (yelling) How's that.

		 Threepio signals that is fine and Luke turns back into the

	wind-whipped cockpit and pops the canopy shut.

LUKE: Old Ben Kenobi lives out in this direction somewhere, but I

don't see how that R2 unit could have come this far. We must have

missed him. Uncle Owen isn't going to take this very well.

THREEPIO: Sir, would it help if you told him it was my fault.

LUKE: (brightening) Sure. He needs you. He'd probably only deactivate

you for a day or so...

THREEPIO: Deactivate! Well, on the other hand if you hadn't removed

his restraining bolt...

LUKE: Wait, there's something dead ahead on the scanner. It looks like

our droid...hit the accelerator.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- ROCK MESA -- DUNE SEA -- COASTLINE -- DAY.

	From high on a rock mesa, the tiny Landspeeder can be seen

	gliding across the desert floor. Suddenly in the foreground

	two weather-beaten Sandpeople shrouded in their grimy desert

	cloaks peer over the edge of the rock mesa. One of the

	marginally human creatures raises a long ominous laser rifle

	and points it at the speeder but the second creature grabs the

	gun before it can be fired.

		 The Sandpeople, or Tusken Raiders as they're sometimes

	called, speak in a coarse barbaric language as they get into

	an animated argument. The second Tusken Raider seems to get in

	the final word and the nomads scurry over the rocky terrain.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- ROCK MESA -- CANYON.

	The Tusken Raider approaches two large Banthas standing tied

	to a rock. The monstrous, bear-like creatures are as large as

	elephants, with huge red eyes, tremendous looped horns, and

	long, furry, dinosaur-like tails. The Tusken Raiders mount

	saddles strapped to the huge creatures' shaggy backs and ride

	off down the rugged bluff.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- ROCK CANYON -- FLOOR.

	The speeder is parked on the floor of a massive canyon. Luke,

	with his long laser rifle slung over his shoulder, stands

	before little Artoo.

LUKE: Hey, whoa, just where do you think you're going?

		 The little droid whistles a feeble reply, as Threepio poses

	menacingly behind the little runaway.

THREEPIO: Master Luke here is your rightful owner. We'll have no more

of this Obi-Wan Kenobi jibberish...and don't talk to me about your

mission, either. You're fortunate he doesn't blast you into a million

pieces right here.

LUKE: Well, come on. It's getting late. I only hope we can get back

before Uncle Owen really blows up.

THREEPIO: If you don't mind my saying so, sir, I think you should

deactivate the little fugitive until you've gotten him back to your

workshop.

LUKE: No, he's not going to try anything.

		 Suddenly the little robot jumps to life with a mass of

	frantic whistles and screams.

LUKE: What's wrong with him now?

THREEPIO: Oh my...sir, he says there are several creatures approaching

from the southeast.

		 Luke swings his rifle into position and looks to the south.

LUKE: Sandpeople! Or worst! Come on, let's have a look. Come on.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- ROCK CANYON -- RIDGE -- DAY.

	Luke carefully makes his way to the top of a rock ridge and

	scans the canyon with his electrobinoculars. He spots the two

	riderless Banthas. Threepio struggles up behind the young

	adventurer.

LUKE: There are two Banthas down there but I don't see any...wait a

second, they're Sandpeople all right. I can see one of them now.

		 Luke watches the distant Tusken Raider through his

	electrobinoculars. Suddenly something huge moves in front of

	his field of view. Before Luke or Threepio can react, a large,

	gruesome Tusken Raider looms over them. Threepio is startled

	and backs away, right off the side if the cliff. He can be

	heard for several moments as he clangs, bangs and rattles down

	the side of the mountain.

		 The towering creature brings down his curved,

	double-pointed gaderffii -- the dreaded axe blade that has

	struck terror in the heart of the local settlers. But Luke

	manages to block the blow with his laser rifle, which is

	smashed to pieces. The terrified farm boy scrambles backward

	until he is forced to the edge of a deep crevice. The sinister

	Raider stands over him with his weapon raised and lets out a

	horrible shrieking laugh.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- ROCK CANYON -- FLOOR -- DAY.

	Artoo forces himself into the shadows of a small alcove in the

	rocks as the vicious Sandpeople walk past carrying the inert

	Luke Skywalker, who is dropped in a heap before the speeder.

	The Sandpeople ransack the speeder, throwing parts and

	supplies in all directions. Suddenly they stop. Then

	everything is quiet for a few moments. A great howling moan is

	heard echoing throughout the canyon which sends the Sandpeople

	fleeing in terror.

		 Artoo moves even tighter into the shadows as the slight

	swishing sound that frightened off the Sandpeople grows even

	closer, until a shabby old desert-rat-of-a-man appears and

	leans over Luke. His ancient leathery face, cracked and

	weathered by exotic climates is set off by dark, penetrating

	eyes and a scraggly white beard. Ben Kenobi squints his eyes

	as he scrutinizes the unconscious farm boy. Artoo makes a

	slight sound and Ben turns and looks right at him.

BEN: Hello there! Come here my little friend. Don't be afraid.

	Artoo waddles over to were Luke lies crumpled in a 

	heap and begins to whistle and beep his concern. Ben

	puts his hand on Luke's forehead and he begins to 

	come around.

BEN: Don't worry, he'll be all right.

LUKE: What happened?

BEN: Rest easy, son, you've had a busy day. You're fortunate you're

still in one piece.

LUKE: Ben? Ben Kenobi! Boy, am I glad to see you! 

BEN: The Jundland wastes are not to be traveled lightly. Tell me young

Luke, what brings you out this far?

LUKE: Oh, this little droid! I think he's searching for his former

master...I've never seen such devotion in a droid before...there

seems to be no stopping him. He claims to be the property of an Obi-

Wan Kenobi. Is he a relative of yours? Do you know who he's talking 

about?

	Ben ponders this for a moment, scratching his scruffy beard.

BEN: Obi-Wan Kenobi...Obi-Wan? Now thats a name I haven't heard in a 

long time...a long time.

LUKE: I think my uncle knew him. He said he was dead.

BEN: Oh, he's not dead, not...not yet.

LUKE: You know him!

BEN: Well of course, of course I know him. He's me! I haven't gone by

the name Obi-Wan since oh, before you were born.

LUKE: Then the droid does belong to you.

BEN: Don't seem to remember ever owning a droid. Very interesting...

	He suddenly looks up at the overhanging cliffs.


BEN: I think we better get indoors. The Sandpeople are easily startled

but they will soon be back and in greater numbers.

	Luke sits up and rubs his head. Artoo lets out a pathetic

	beep causing Luke to remember something. He looks around.

LUKE: Threepio!

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- SAND PIT -- ROCK MESA -- DAY.

	Little Artoo stands at the edge of a large sand pit and begins

	to chatter away in electronic whistles and beeps. Luke and Ben

	stand over a very dented and tangled Threepio lying half

	buried in the sand. One of his arms has broken off.

		 Luke tries to revive the inert robot by shaking him and

	then flips a hidden switch on his back several times until

	finally the mechanical man's systems turn on.

THREEPIO: Where am I? I must have taken a bad step...

LUKE: Can you stand? We've got to get out of here before the

Sandpeople return.

THREEPIO: I don't think I can make it. You go on, Master Luke. There's

no sense in you risking yourself on my account. I'm done for.

	

		 Artoo makes a beeping sound.

LUKE: No, you're not. What kind of talk is that?

		 Luke and Ben help the battered robot to his feet. Little

	Artoo watches from the top of the pit. Ben glances around

	suspiciously. Sensing something, he stands up and sniffs the

	air.

BEN: Quickly, son...they're on the move.

INTERIOR: KENOBI'S DWELLING.

	The small, spartan hovel is cluttered with desert junk but

	still manages to radiate an air of time-worn comfort and

	security. Luke is in one corner repairing Threepio's arm, as

	old Ben sits thinking.

LUKE: No, my father didn't fight in the wars. He was a navigator on a

spice freighter.

BEN: That's what your uncle told you. He didn't hold with your

father's ideals. Thought he should have stayed here and not gotten

involved.

LUKE: You fought in the Clone Wars?

BEN: Yes, I was once a Jedi Knight the same as your father.

LUKE: I wish I'd known him.

BEN: He was the best star-pilot in the galaxy, and a cunning warrior.

I understand you've become quite a good pilot yourself. And he was a

good friend. Which reminds me...

		 Ben gets up and goes to a chest where he rummages around.

	As Luke finishes repairing Threepio and starts to fit the

	restraining bolt back on, Threepio looks at him nervously.

	Luke thinks about the bolt for a moment then puts it on the

	table. Ben shuffles up and presents Luke with a short handle

	with several electronic gadgets attached to it.

BEN: I have something here for you. Your father wanted you to have

this when you were old enough, but your uncle wouldn't allow it. He

feared you might follow old Obi-Wan on some damned-fool idealistic

crusade like your father did. 

THREEPIO: Sir, if you'll not be needing me, I'll close down for

awhile.

LUKE: Sure, go ahead.

		 Ben hands Luke the saber.

LUKE: What is it?

BEN: Your fathers lightsaber. This is the weapon of a Jedi Knight. Not

as clumsy or as random as a blaster.

			 

		 Luke pushes a button on the handle. A long beam shoots out

	about four feet and flickers there. The light plays across the

	ceiling.

BEN: An elegant weapon for a more civilized time. For over a thousand

generations the Jedi Knights were the guardians of peace and justice

in the Old Republic. Before the dark times, before the Empire.

		 Luke hasn't really been listening.

LUKE: How did my father die?

BEN: A young Jedi named Darth Vader, who was a pupil of mine until he

turned to evil, helped the Empire hunt down and destroy the Jedi

Knights. He betrayed and murdered your father. Now the Jedi are all

but extinct. Vader was seduced by the dark side of the Force.

LUKE: The Force?

BEN: Well, the Force is what gives a Jedi his power. It's an energy

field created by all living things. It surrounds us and penetrates us.

It binds the galaxy together.

		 Artoo makes beeping sounds.

BEN: Now, let's see if we can't figure out what you are, my little

friend. And where you come from.

LUKE: I saw part of the message he was...

		 Luke is cut short as the recorded image of the beautiful

	young Rebel princess is projected from Artoo's face.

BEN: I seem to have found it.

		 Luke stops his work as the lovely girl's image flickers

	before his eyes.

LEIA: General Kenobi, years ago you served my father in the Clone

Wars. Now he begs you to help him in his struggle against the Empire.

I regret that I am unable to present my father's request to you in

person, but my ship has fallen under attack and I'm afraid my mission

to bring you to Alderaan has failed. I have placed information vital

to the survival of the Rebellion into the memory systems of this R2

unit. My father will know how to retrieve it. You must see this droid

safely delivered to him on Alderaan. This is our most desperate hour.

Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi, you're my only hope.

	There is a little static and the transmission is cut short.

	Old Ben leans back and scratches his head. He silently puffs

	on a tarnished chrome water pipe. Luke has stars in his eyes.

BEN: You must learn the ways of the Force if you're to come with me to

Alderaan.

LUKE: (laughing) Alderaan? I'm not going to Alderaan. I've got to go

home. It's late, I'm in for it as it is.

BEN: I need your help, Luke. She needs your help. I'm getting too old

for this sort of thing.

LUKE: I can't get involved! I've got work to do! It's not that I like

the Empire. I hate it! But there's nothing I can do about it right

now. It's such a long way from here.

BEN: That's your uncle talking.

LUKE: (sighing) Oh, God, my uncle. How am I ever going to explain

this?

BEN: Learn about the Force, Luke.

LUKE: Look, I can take you as far as Anchorhead. You can get a

transport there to Mos Eisley or wherever you're going.

BEN: You must do what you feel is right, of course.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	An Imperial Stardestroyer heads toward the evil planet-like

	battle station: the Death Star!

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- CONFERENCE ROOM.

	Eight Imperial senators and generals sit around a black

	conference table. Imperial stormtroopers stand guard around

	the room. Commander Tagge, a young, slimy-looking general, is

	speaking.

TAGGE: Until this battle station is fully operational we are

vulnerable. The Rebel Alliance is too well equipped. They're more

dangerous than you realize.

		 The bitter Admiral Motti twists nervously in his chair.

MOTTI: Dangerous to your starfleet, Commander, not to this battle

station!

TAGGE: The Rebellion will continue to gain a support in the Imperial

Senate as long as....

		 Suddenly all heads turn as Commander Tagge's speech is cut

	short and the Grand Moff Tarkin, governor of the Imperial

	outland regions, enters. He is followed by his powerful ally,

	The Sith Lord, Darth Vader. All of the generals stand and bow

	before the thin, evil-looking governor as he takes his place

	at the head of the table. The Dark Lord stands behind him.

TARKIN: The Imperial Senate will no longer be of any concern to us.

I've just received word that the Emperor has dissolved the council

permanently. The last remnants of the Old Republic have been swept

away.

TAGGE: That's impossible! How will the Emperor maintain control

without the bureaucracy?

TARKIN: The regional governors now have direct control over

territories. Fear will keep the local systems in line. Fear of this

battle station.

TAGGE: And what of the Rebellion? If the Rebels have obtained a

complete technical readout of this station, it is possible, however

unlikely, that they might find a weakness and exploit it.

VADER: The plans you refer to will soon be back in our hands.

MOTTI: Any attack made by the Rebels against this station would be a

useless gesture, no matter what technical data they've obtained. This

station is now the ultimate power in the universe. I suggest we use

it!

VADER: Don't be too proud of this technological terror you've

constructed. The ability to destroy a planet is insignificant next to

the power of the Force.

MOTTI: Don't try to frighten us with your sorcerer's ways, Lord Vader.

Your sad devotion to that ancient religion has not helped you conjure

up the stolen data tapes, or given you clairvoyance enough to find the

Rebel's hidden fort...

		 Suddenly Motti chokes and starts to turn blue under Vader's

	spell.

VADER: I find your lack of faith disturbing.

TARKIN: Enough of this! Vader, release him!

VADER: As you wish.

TARKIN: This bickering is pointless. Lord Vader will provide us with

the location of the Rebel fortress by the time this station is

operational. We will then crush the Rebellion with one swift stroke.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- WASTELAND.

	The speeder stops before what remains of the huge Jawas

	Sandcrawler. Luke and Ben walk among the smoldering rubble

	and scattered bodies.

LUKE: It looks like Sandpeople did this, all right. Look, here are

Gaffi sticks, Bantha tracks. It's just...I never heard of them hitting

anything this big before.

		 Ben is crouching in the sand studying the tracks.

BEN: They didn't. But we are meant to think they did. These tracks are

side by side. Sandpeople always ride single file to hide there numbers.



LUKE: These are the same Jawas that sold us Artoo and Threepio.

BEN: And these blast points, too accurate for Sandpeople. Only

Imperial stormtroopers are so precise.

LUKE: Why would Imperial troops want to slaughter Jawas?

		 Luke looks back at the speeder where Artoo and Threepio are

	inspecting the dead Jawas, and put two and two together.

LUKE: If they traced the robots here, they may have learned who they

sold them to. And that would lead them home!

		 Luke reaches a sudden horrible realization, then races for

	the speeder and jumps it.

BEN: Wait, Luke! It's too dangerous.

		 Luke races off leaving Ben and the two robots alone with

	the burning Sandcrawler.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- WASTELAND.

	Luke races across the wasteland in his battered Landspeeder.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- LARS HOMESTEAD.

	The speeder roars up to the burning homestead. Luke jumps out

	and runs to the smoking holes that were once his home. Debris

	is scattered everywhere and it looks as if a great battle has

	taken place.

LUKE: Uncle Owen! Aunt Beru! Uncle Owen!

		 Luke stumbles around in a daze looking for his aunt and

	uncle. Suddenly he comes upon their smoldering remains. He is

	stunned, and cannot speak. Hate replaces fear and a new

	resolve comes over him.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	Imperial TIE fighter races toward the Death Star.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- DETENTION CORRIDOR.

	Two stormtroopers open an electronic cell door and allow

	several Imperial guards to enter. Princess Leia's face is

	filled with defiance, which slowly gives way to fear as a

	giant black torture robot enters, followed by Darth Vader.

VADER: And, now Your Highness, we will discuss the location of your

hidden Rebel base.

		 The torture robot gives off a steady beeping sound as it

	approaches Princess Leia and extends one of its mechanical

	arms bearing a large hypodermic needle. The door slides shut

	and the long cell block hallway appears peaceful. The muffled

	screams of the Rebel princess are barely heard.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- WASTELAND.

	There is a large bonfire of Jawa bodies blazing in front of

	the Sandcrawler as Ben and the robots finish burning the dead.

	Luke drives up in the speeder and Ben walks over to him.

BEN: There's nothing you could have done, Luke, had you been there.

You'd have been killed, too, and the droids would be in the hands of

the Empire.

LUKE: I want to come with you to Alderaan. There's nothing here for me

now. I want to learn the ways of the Force and become a Jedi like my

father.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- WASTELAND.

	The Landspeeder with Luke, Artoo, Threepio, and Ben in it

	zooms across the desert. The speeder stops on a bluff

	overlooking the spaceport at Mos Eisley. It is a haphazard

	array of low, grey, concrete structures and semi-domes. A

	harsh gale blows across the stark canyon floor. Luke adjusts

	his goggles and walks to the edge of the craggy bluff where

	Ben is standing.

BEN: Mos Eisley Spaceport. You will never find a more wretched hive of

scum and villainy. We must be cautious.

		 Ben looks over at Luke, who gives the old Jedi a determined

	smile.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- MOS EISLEY -- STREET.

	The speeder is stopped on a crowded street by several

	combat-hardend stormtroopers who look over the two robots. A

	Trooper questions Luke.

TROOPER: How long have you had these droids?

LUKE: About three or four seasons.

BEN: They're for sale if you want them.

TROOPER: Let me see your identification.

		 Luke becomes very nervous as he fumbles to find his ID

	while Ben speaks to the Trooper in a very controlled voice.

BEN: You don't need to see his identification.

TROOPER: We don't need to see his identification.

BEN: These are not the droids your looking for.

TROOPER: These are not the droids we're looking for.

BEN: He can go about his business.

TROOPER: You can go about your business.

BEN: (to Luke) Move along.

TROOPER: Move along. Move along.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- MOS EISLEY -- STREET.

	The speeder pulls up in front of a rundown blockhouse cantina

	on the outskirts of the spaceport. Various strange forms of

	transport, including several unusual beasts of burden, are

	parked outside the bar. A Jawa runs up and begins to fondle

	the speeder.

THREEPIO: I can't abide these Jawas. Disgusting creatures.

		 As Luke gets out of the speeder he tries to shoo the Jawa

	away.

	 

LUKE: Go on, go on. I can't understand how we got by those troopers. I

thought we were dead.

BEN: The Force can have a strong influence on the weak-minded. You

will find it a powerful ally.

LUKE: Do you really think we're going to find a pilot here that'll

take us to Alderaan?

BEN: Well, most of the best freighter pilots can be found here. Only

watch your step. This place can be a little rough.

LUKE: I'm ready for anything.

THREEPIO: Come along, Artoo.

INTERIOR: TATOOINE -- MOS EISLEY -- CANTINA.

	The young adventurer and his two mechanical servants follow

	Ben Kenobi into the smoke-filled cantina. The murky, moldy den

	is filled with a startling array of weird and exotic alien

	creatures and monsters at the long metallic bar. At first the

	sight is horrifying. One-eyed, thousand-eyed, slimy, furry,

	scaly, tentacled, and clawed creatures huddle over drinks. Ben

	moves to an empty spot at the bar near a group of repulsive

	but human scum. A huge, rough-looking Bartender stops Luke and

	the robots.

BARTENDER: We don't serve their kind here!

		 Luke still recovering from the shock of seeing so many

	outlandish creatures, doesn't quite catch the bartender's

	drift.

LUKE: What?

BARTENDER: Your droids. They'll have to wait outside. We don't want

them here.

		 Luke looks at old Ben, who is busy talking to one of the

	Galactic pirates. He notices several of the gruesome creatures

	along the bar are giving him a very unfriendly glare.

		 Luke pats Threepio on the shoulder.

LUKE: Listen, why don't you wait out by the speeder. We don't want any

trouble.

THREEPIO: I heartily agree with you sir.

	Threepio and his stubby partner go outside and most of the

	creatures at the bar go back to their drinks.

		 Ben is standing next to Chewbacca, an eight-foot-tall-

	savage-looking creature resembling a huge grey bushbaby monkey

	with fierce baboon-like fangs. His large blue eyes dominate a

	fur-covered face and soften his otherwise awesome appearance.

	Over his matted, furry body he wears two chrome bandoliers,

	and little else. He is a two-hundred-year-old Wookiee and a

	sight to behold.

		 Ben speaks to the Wookiee, pointing to Luke several times

	during his conversation and the huge creature suddenly lets

	out a horrifying laugh. Luke is more than a little bit

	disconcerted and pretends not to hear the conversation between

	Ben and the giant Wookiee.

		 Luke is terrified but tries not to show it. He quietly sips

	his drink, looking over the crowd for a more sympathetic ear

	or whatever. 

		 A large, multiple-eyed Creature gives Luke a rough shove.

CREATURE: Negola dewaghi wooldugger?!?

		 The hideous freak is obviously drunk. Luke tries to ignore

	the creature and turns back on his drink. A short, grubby

	Human and an even smaller rodent-like beast join the

	belligerent monstrosity.

HUMAN: He doesn't like you.

LUKE: I'm sorry.

HUMAN: I don't like you either

		 The big creature is getting agitated and yells out some

	unintelligible gibberish at the now rather nervous, young

	adventurer.

HUMAN: (continued) Don't insult us. You just watch yourself. We're

wanted men. I have the death sentence in twelve systems.

LUKE: I'll be careful than.

HUMAN: You'll be dead.

		 The rodent lets out a loud grunt and everything at the bar

	moves away. Luke tries to remain cool but it isn't easy. His

	three adversaries ready their weapons. Old Ben moves in behind

	Luke.

BEN: This little one isn't worth the effort. Come let me buy you

something...

		 A powerful blow from the unpleasant creature sends the

	young would-be Jedi sailing across the room, crashing through

	tables and breaking a large jug filled with a foul-looking

	liquid. With a blood curdling shriek, the monster draws a

	wicked chrome laser pistol from his belt and levels it at old

	Ben. The bartender panics.

BARTENDER: No blasters! No blaster!

		 With astounding agility old Ben's laser sword sparks to

	life and in a flash an arm lies on the floor. The rodent is

	cut in two and the giant multiple-eyed creature lies doubled,

	cut from chin to groin. Ben carefully and precisely turns off

	his laser sword and replaces it on his utility belt. Luke,

	shaking and totally amazed at the old man's abilities, attempts

	to stand. The entire fight has lasted only a matter of seconds.

	The cantina goes back to normal, although Ben is given a

	respectable amount of room at the bar. Luke, rubbing his

	bruised head, approaches the old man with new awe. Ben points

	the the Wookiee.

BEN: This is Chewbacca. He's first-mate on a ship that might suit our

needs.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- MOS EISLEY -- STREET.

	Threepio paces in front of the cantina as Artoo carries on an

	electronic conversation with another little red astro-droid. A

	creature comes out of the cantina and approaches two

	stormtroopers in the street.

THREEPIO: I don't like the look of this.

INTERIOR: TATOOINE -- MOS EISLEY -- CANTINA.

	Strange creatures play exotic big band music on odd-looking

	instruments as Luke, still giddy, downs a fresh drink and

	follows Ben and Chewbacca to a booth where Han Solo is

	sitting. Han is a tough, roguish starpilot about thirty years

	old. A mercenary on a starship, he is simple, sentimental, and

	cocksure.

HAN: Han Solo. I'm captain of the Millennium Falcon. Chewie here tells

me you're looking for passage to the Alderaan system.

BEN: Yes, indeed. If it's a fast ship.

HAN: Fast ship? You've never heard of the Millennium Falcon?

BEN: Should I have?

HAN: It's the ship that made the Kessel run in less than twelve

parsecs!

		 Ben reacts to Solo's stupid attempt to impress them with

	obvious misinformation.

HAN: (continued) I've outrun Imperial starships, not the local

bulk-cruisers, mind you. I'm talking about the big Corellian ships

now. She's fast enough for you, old man. What's the cargo?

BEN: Only passengers. Myself, the boy, two droids, and no questions

asked.

HAN: What is it? Some kind of local trouble?

BEN: Let's just say we'd like to avoid any Imperial entanglements.

HAN: Well, that's the trick, isn't it? And it's going to cost you

something extra. Ten thousand in advance.

LUKE: Ten thousand? We could almost buy our own ship for that!

HAN: But who's going to fly it, kid! You?

LUKE: You bet I could. I'm not such a bad pilot myself! We don't have

to sit here and listen...

BEN: We haven't that much with us. But we could pay you two thousand

now, plus fifteen when we reach Alderaan.

HAN: Seventeen, huh!

		 Han ponders this for a few moments.

HAN: Okay. You guys got yourself a ship. We'll leave as soon as you're

ready. Docking bay Ninety-four.

BEN: Ninety-four.

HAN: Looks like somebody's beginning to take an interest in your

handiwork.

		 Ben and Luke turn around to see four Imperial stormtroopers

	looking at the dead bodies and asking the bartenders some

	questions. The bartender points to the booth.

TROOPER: All right, we'll check it out.

		 The stormtroopers look over at the booth but Luke and Ben

	are gone. The bartender shrugs his shoulders in puzzlement.

HAN: Seventeen thousand! Those guys must really be desperate. This

could really save my neck. Get back to the ship and get her ready.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- MOS EISLEY -- STREET.

BEN: You'll have to sell your speeder.

LUKE: That's okay. I'm never coming back to this planet again.

INTERIOR: MOS EISLEY -- CANTINA.

	As Han is about to leave, Greedo, a slimy green-faced alien 

	with a short trunk-nose, pokes a gun in his side. The creature

	speaks in a foreign tongue translated into English subtitles.

GREEDO: Going somewhere, Solo?

HAN: Yes, Greedo. As a matter of fact, I was just going to see your

boss. Tell Jabba that I've got his money.

		 Han sits down and the alien sits across from him holding

	the gun on him.

GREEDO: It's too late. You should have paid him when you had the

chance. Jabba's put a price on your head, so large that every bounty

hunter in the galaxy will be looking for you. I'm lucky I found you

first.

HAN: Yeah, but this time I got the money.

GREEDO: If you give it to me, I might forget I found you.

HAN: I don't have it with me. Tell Jabba...

GREEDO: Jabba's through with you. He has no time for smugglers who

drop their shipments at the first sign of an Imperial cruiser.

HAN: Even I get boarded sometimes. Do you think I had a choice?

	

		 Han Solo slowly reaches for his gun under the table.

GREEDO: You can tell that to Jabba. He may only take your ship.

HAN: Over my dead body.

GREEDO: That's the idea. I've been looking forward to killing you for

a long time.

HAN: Yes, I'll bet you have.



		 Suddenly the slimy alien disappears in a blinding flash of

	light. Han pulls his smoking gun from beneath the table as the

	other patron look on in bemused amazement. Han gets up and

	starts out of the cantina, flipping the bartender some coins

	as he leaves.

HAN: Sorry about the mess.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	Several TIE fighters approach the Death Star.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- CONTROL ROOM.


VADER: Her resistance to the mind probe is considerable. It will be

some time before we can extract any information from her.

		 An Imperial Officer interrupts the meeting.

IMPERIAL OFFICER: The final check-out is complete. All systems are

operational. What course shall we set?

TARKIN: Perhaps she would respond to an alternative form of

persuasion.

VADER: What do you mean?

TARKIN: I think it is time we demonstrate the full power of this

station. (to soldier) Set your course for Princess Leia's home planet

of Alderaan.

TROOPER: With pleasure.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- MOS EISLEY -- STREET.

	Four heavily-armed stormtroopers move menacingly along a

	narrow slum alleyway crowed with darkly clad creatures hawking

	exotic goods in the dingy little stalls. Men, monsters, and

	robots crouch in the waste-filled doorways, whispering and

	hiding from the hot winds.

THREEPIO: Lock the door, Artoo.

		 One of the troopers checks a tightly locked door and moves

	on down the alleyway. The door slides open a crack and

	Threepio peeks out. Artoo is barely visible in the background.

TROOPER: All right, check that side of the street. It's secure. Move

on to the next door.

		 The door opens, Threepio moves into the doorway.

THREEPIO: I would much rather have gone with Master Luke than stay

here with you. I don't know what all the trouble is about, but I'm

sure it must be your fault.

		 Artoo makes beeping sounds.

THREEPIO: You watch your language!

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- MOS EISLEY -- STREET -- ALLEYWAY -- USED SPEEDER LOT.

	Ben and Luke are standing in a sleazy used speeder lot,

	talking with a tall, grotesque, insect-like used speeder

	dealer. Strange exotic bodies and spindly-legged beasts pass

	by as the insect concludes the sale by giving Luke some coins.

LUKE: He says it's the best he can do. Since the XP-38 came out,

they're just not in demand.

BEN: It will be enough.

		 Ben and Luke leave the speeder lot and walk down the dusty

	alleyway past a small robot herding a bunch of anteater-like

	creatures. Luke turns and gives one last forlorn look at his

	faithful speeder as he rounds a corner. A darkly clad creature

	moves out of the shadows as they pass and watches them as they

	disappear down another alley.

BEN: If the ship's as fast as he's boasting, we ought to do well.

INTERIOR: DOCKING BAY 94 -- DAY.

	Jabba the Hut and a half-dozen grisly alien pirates and purple

	creatures stand in the middle of the docking bay. Jabba is the

	grossest of the slavering hulks and his scarred face is a grim

	testimonial to his prowess as a vicious killer. He is a fat,

	slug-like creature with eyes on extended feelers and a huge

	ugly mouth.

JABBA: Come on out, Solo!

		 A voice from directly behind the pirates startles them and

	they turn around to see Han Solo and the giant Wookiee,

	Chewbacca, standing behind them with no weapons in sight.

HAN: I've been waiting for you, Jabba.

JABBA: I expected you would be.

HAN: I'm not the type to run.

JABBA: (fatherly-smooth) Han, my boy, there are times when you

disappoint me...why haven't you paid me? And why did you have to fry

poor Greedo like that...after all we've been through together.

HAN: You sent Greedo to blast me.

JABBA: (mock surprise) Han, why you're the best smuggler in the

business. You're too valuable to fry. He was only relaying my concern

at your delays. He wasn't going to blast you.

HAN: I think he thought he was. Next time don't send one of those

twerps. If you've got something to say to me, come see me yourself.

JABBA: Han, Han! If only you hadn't had to dump that shipment of

spice...you understand I just can't make an exception. Where would I

be if every pilot who smuggled for me dumped their shipment at the

first sign of an Imperial starship? It's not good business.

HAN: You know, even I get boarded sometimes, Jabba. I had no choice,

but I've got a charter now and I can pay you back, plus a little

extra. I just need some more time.

JABBA: (to his men) Put your blasters away. Han, my boy, I'm only

doing this because you're the best and I need you. So, for an extra,

say twenty percent I'll give you a little more time...but this is it.

If you disappoint me again, I'll put a price on your head so large you

won't be able to go near a civilized system for the rest of your short

life.

HAN: Jabba, I'll pay you because it's my pleasure.

EXTERIOR: DOCKING PORT ENTRY -- ALLEYWAY.

	Chewbacca waits restlessly at the entrance to Docking Bay 94.

	Ben, Luke, and the robots make their way up the street.

	Chewbacca jabbers excitedly and signals for them to hurry. The

	darkly clad creature has followed them from the speeder lot.

	He stops in a nearby doorway and speaks into a small

	transmitter.

INTERIOR: MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT -- DOCKING BAY 94

	Chewbacca leads the group into a giant dirt pit that is Docking

	Bay 94. Resting in the middle of the huge hole is a large,

	round, beat-up, pieced-together hunk of junk that could only

	loosely be called a starship.

LUKE: What a piece of junk.

		 The tall figure of Han Solo comes down the boarding ramp.

HAN: She'll make point five beyond the speed of light. She may not

look like much, but she's got it where it counts, kid. I've added some

special modifications myself.

		 Luke scratches his head. It's obvious he isn't sure about

	all this. Chewbacca rushes up the ramp and urges the others to

	follow.

HAN: We're a little rushed, so if you'll hurry aboard we'll get out of

here.

		 The group rushes up the gang plank, passing a grinning Han

	Solo.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON.

	Chewbacca settles into the pilot's chair and starts the mighty

	engines of the starship.

INTERIOR: MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT -- DOCKING BAY 94.

	Luke, Ben, Threepio, and Artoo move toward the Millennium

	Falcon passing Solo.

THREEPIO: Hello, sir.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- MOS EISLEY -- STREET.

	Eight Imperial stormtroopers rush up to the darkly clad

	creature.

TROOPER: Which way?

		 The darkly clad creature points to the door of the docking

	bay.

TROOPER: All right, men. Load your weapons!

INTERIOR: MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT -- DOCKING BAY 94.

	The troops hold their guns at the ready and charge down the

	docking bay entrance.

TROOPER: Stop that ship!

		 Han Solo looks up and sees the Imperial stormtroopers

	rushing into the docking bay. Several of the troopers fire at

	Han as he ducks into the spaceship.

TROOPER: Blast 'em!

		 Han draws his laser pistol and pops off a couple of shots

	which force the stormtroopers to dive for safety. The

	pirateship engines whine as Han hits the release button that

	slams the overhead entry shut.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON.

HAN: Chewie, get us out of here!

		 The group straps in for take off.

THREEPIO: Oh, my. I'd forgotten how much I hate space travel.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE -- MOS EISLEY -- STREETS.

	The half-dozen stormtroopers at a check point hear the general

	alarm and look to the sky as the huge starship rises above the

	dingy slum dwellings and quickly disappears into the morning

	sky.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT.

	Han climbs into the pilot's chair next to Chewbacca, who

	chatters away as he points to something on the radar scope.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- PLANET TATOOINE.

	The Corellian pirateship zooms from Tatooine into space.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT.

	Han frantically types information into the ship's computer.

	Little Artoo appears momentarily at the cockpit doorway, makes

	a few beeping remarks, then scurries away.

HAN: It looks like an Imperial cruiser. Our passengers must be hotter

than I thought. Try and hold them off. Angle the deflector shield

while I make the calculations for the jump to light speed.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- PLANET TATOOINE.

	The Millennium Falcon pirateship races away from the yellow

	planet, Tatooine. It is followed by two huge Imperial

	stardestroyers.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT.

	Over the shoulders of Chewbacca and Han, we can see the galaxy

	spread before them. Luke and Ben make their way into the

	cramped cockpit where Han continues his calculation.

HAN: Stay sharp! There are two more coming in; they're going to try to

cut us off.

LUKE: Why don't you outrun them? I thought you said this thing was

fast.

HAN: Watch your mouth, kid, or you're going to find yourself floating

home. We'll be safe enough once we make the jump to hyperspace.

Besides, I know a few maneuvers. We'll lose them!

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- PLANET TATOOINE.

	Imperial cruisers fire at the pirateship.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT.

	The ship shudders as an explosion flashes outside the window.

HAN: Here's where the fun begins!

BEN: How long before you can make the jump to light speed?

HAN: It'll take a few moments to get the coordinates from the

navi-computer.

	The ship begins to rock violently as lasers hit it.

LUKE: Are you kidding? At the rate they're gaining...

HAN: Traveling through hyperspace isn't like dusting crops, boy!

Without precise calculations we could fly right through a star or

bounce too close to a supernova and that'd end your trip real quick,

wouldn't it?

		 The ship is now constantly battered with laserfire as a red

	warning light begins to flash.

LUKE: What's that flashing?

HAN: We're losing our deflector shield. Go strap yourself in, I'm

going to make the jump to light speed.

		 The galaxy brightens and they move faster, almost as if

	crashing a barrier. Stars become streaks as the pirateship

	makes the jump to hyperspace.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	The Millennium Falcon zooms into infinity in less than a

	second.

EXTERIOR: DEATH STAR.

	Alderaan looms behind the Death Star battlestation.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- CONTROL ROOM.

	Admiral Motti enters the quiet control room and bows before

	Governor Tarkin, who stands before the huge wall screen

	displaying a small green planet.

MOTTI: We've entered the Alderaan system.

		 Vader and two stormtroopers enter with Princess Leia. Her

	hands are bound.

LEIA: Governor Tarkin, I should have expected to find you holding

Vader's leash. I recognized your foul stench when I was brought on

board.

TARKIN: Charming to the last. You don't know how hard I found it

signing the order to terminate your life!

LEIA: I surprised you had the courage to take the responsibility

yourself!

TARKIN: Princess Leia, before your execution I would like you to be my

guest at a ceremony that will make this battle station operational. No

star system will dare oppose the Emperor now.

LEIA: The more you tighten your grip, Tarkin, the more star systems

will slip through your fingers.

TARKIN: Not after we demonstrate the power of this station. In a way,

you have determined the choice of the planet that'll be destroyed

first. Since you are reluctant to provide us with the location of the

Rebel base, I have chosen to test this station's destructive power...

on your home planet of Alderaan.

LEIA: No! Alderaan is peaceful. We have no weapons. You can't

possibly...

TARKIN: You would prefer another target? A military target? Then name

the system!

		 Tarkin waves menacingly toward Leia.

TARKIN: I grow tired of asking this. So it'll be the last time. Where

is the Rebel base?

		 Leia overhears an intercom voice announcing the approach to

	Alderaan.

LEIA: (softly) Dantooine.

		 Leia lowers her head.

LEIA: They're on Dantooine.

TARKIN: There. You see Lord Vader, she can be reasonable. (addressing

Motti) Continue with the operation. You may fire when ready.

LEIA: What?

TARKIN: You're far too trusting. Dantooine is too remote to make an

effective demonstration. But don't worry. We will deal with your Rebel

friends soon enough. 

LEIA: No!

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- BLAST CHAMBER.

VADER: Commence primary ignition.

		 A button is pressed which switches on a panel of lights. A

	hooded Imperial soldier reaches overhead and pulls a lever.

	Another lever is pulled. Vader reaches for still another lever

	and a bank of lights on a panel and wall light up. A huge beam

	of light emanates from within a cone-shaped area and converges

	into a single laser beam out toward Alderaan. The small green

	planet of Alderaan is blown into space dust.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- CENTRAL HOLD AREA.



	Ben watches Luke practice the lightsaber with a small "seeker"

	robot. Ben suddenly turns away and sits down. He falters,

	seems almost faint.

LUKE: Are you all right? What's wrong?

BEN: I felt a great disturbance in the Force...as if millions of

voices suddenly cried out in terror and were suddenly silenced. I fear

something terrible has happened.

		 Ben rubs his forehead. He seems to drift into a trance. Then

	he fixes his gaze on Luke.

BEN: You'd better get on with your exercises.

		 Han Solo enters the room.

HAN: Well, you can forget your troubles with those Imperial slugs. I

told you I'd outrun 'em.

		 Luke is once again practicing with the lightsaber.

HAN: Don't everyone thank me at once.

		 Threepio watches Chewbacca and Artoo who are engrossed in a

	game in which three-dimensional holographic figures move along

	a chess-type board.

HAN: Anyway, we should be at Alderaan about oh-two-hundred hours.

		 Chewbacca and the two robots sit around the lighted table

	covered with small holographic monsters. Each side of the

	table has a small computer monitor embedded in it. Chewbacca

	seems very pleased with himself as he rests his lanky fur-

	covered arms over his head.

THREEPIO: Now be careful, Artoo.



		 Artoo immediately reaches up and taps the computer with his

	stubby claw hand, causing one of the holographic creatures to

	walk to the new square. A sudden frown crosses Chewbacca's

	face and he begins yelling gibberish at the tiny robot.

	Threepio intercedes on behalf of his small companion and

	begins to argue with the huge Wookiee.

THREEPIO: He made a fair move. Screaming about it won't help you.

HAN: (interrupting) Let him have it. It's not wise to upset a Wookiee.

THREEPIO: But sir, nobody worries about upsetting a droid.

HAN: That's 'cause droids don't pull people's arms out of their socket

when they lose. Wookiees are known to do that.

THREEPIO: I see your point, sir. I suggest a new strategy, Artoo. Let

the Wookiee win.

		 Luke stands in the middle of the small hold area; he seems

	frozen in place. A humming lightsaber is held high over his

	head. Ben watches him from the corner, studying his movements.

	Han watches with a bit of smugness.

BEN: Remember, a Jedi can feel the Force flowing through him.

LUKE: You mean it controls your actions?

BEN: Partially. But it also obeys your commands.

		 Suspended at eye level, about ten feet in front of Luke, a

	"seeker", a chrome baseball-like robot covered with antennae,

	hovers slowly in a wide arc. The ball floats to one side of

	the youth then the other. Suddenly it makes a lightning-swift

	lunge and stops within a few feet of Luke's face. Luke doesn't

	move and the ball backs off. It slowly moves behind the boy,

	then makes another quick lunge, this time emitting a blood red

	laser beam as it attacks. It hits Luke in the leg causing him

	to tumble over. Han lets loose with a burst of laughter.

HAN: Hokey religions and ancient weapons are no match for a good

blaster at your side, kid.

LUKE: You don't believe in the Force, do you?

HAN: Kid, I've flown from one side of this galaxy to the other. I've

seen a lot of strange stuff, but I've never seen anything to make me

believe there's one all-powerful force controlling everything. There's

no mystical energy field that controls my destiny.

		 Ben smiles quietly

HAN: It's all a lot of simple tricks and nonsense.

BEN: I suggest you try it again, Luke.

		 Ben places a large helmet on Luke's head which covers his

	eyes.

BEN: This time, let go your conscious self and act on instinct.

LUKE: (laughing) With the blast shield down, I can't even see. How am

I supposed to fight?

BEN: Your eyes can deceive you. Don't trust them.

		 Han skeptically shakes his head as Ben throws the seeker

	into the air. The ball shoots straight up in the air, then

	drops like a rock. Luke swings the lightsaber around blindly

	missing the seeker, which fires off a laserbolt which hits

	Luke square on the seat of the pants. He lets out a painful

	yell and attempts to hit the seeker.

BEN: Stretch out with your feelings.

		 Luke stands in one place, seemingly frozen. The seeker

	makes a dive at Luke and, incredibly, he managed to deflect

	the bolt. The ball ceases fire and moves back to its original

	position.

BEN: You see, you can do it.

HAN: I call it luck. 

BEN: In my experience, there's no such thing as luck.

HAN: Look, going good against remotes is one thing. Going good against

the living? That's something else.

		 Solo notices a small light flashing on the far side of the

	control panel.

HAN: Looks like we're coming up on Alderaan.

		 Han and Chewbacca head back to the cockpit.

LUKE: You know, I did feel something. I could almost see the remote.

BEN: That's good. You have taken your first step into a larger world.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- CONFERENCE ROOM.

	Imperial Officer Cass stands before Governor Tarkin and the

	evil Dark Lord Darth Vader.

TARKIN: Yes.

OFFICER CASS: Our scout ships have reached Dantooine. They found the

remains of a Rebel base, but they estimate that it has been deserted

for some time. They are now conducting an extensive search of the

surrounding systems.

TARKIN: She lied! She lied to us!

VADER: I told you she would never consciously betray the Rebellion.

TARKIN: Terminate her...immediately!

EXTERIOR: HYPERSPACE.

	The pirateship is just coming out of hyperspace; a strange

	surreal light show surrounds the ship.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT.

HAN: Stand by, Chewie, here we go. Cut in the sublight engines.

		 Han pulls back on a control lever. Outside the cockpit

	window stars begin streaking past, seem to decrease in speed,

	then stop. Suddenly the starship begins to shudder and

	violently shake about. Asteroids begin to race toward them,

	battering the sides of the ship.

HAN: What the...? Aw, we've come out of hyperspace into a meteor

shower. Some kind of asteroid collision. It's not on any of the

charts.

		 The Wookiee flips off several controls and seems very cool

	in the emergency. Luke makes his way into the bouncing

	cockpit.

LUKE: What's going on?

HAN: Our position is correct, except...no, Alderaan!

LUKE: What do you mean? Where is it?

HAN: Thats what I'm trying to tell you, kid. It ain't there. It's been

totally blown away.

LUKE: What? How?

		 Ben moves into the cockpit behind Luke as the ship begins

	to settle down.

BEN: Destroyed...by the Empire!

HAN: The entire starfleet couldn't destroy the whole planet. It'd take

a thousand ships with more fire power than I've...

		 A signal starts flashing on the control panel and a muffled

	alarm starts humming.

HAN: There's another ship coming in.

LUKE: Maybe they know what happened.

BEN: It's an Imperial fighter.

		 Chewbacca barks his concern. A huge explosion bursts

	outside the cockpit window, shaking the ship violently. A

	tiny, finned Imperial TIE fighter races past the cockpit

	window.

LUKE: It followed us!

BEN: No. It's a short range fighter.

HAN: There aren't any bases around here. Where did it come from?

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	The fighter races past the Corellian pirateship.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT.

LUKE: It sure is leaving in a big hurry. If they identify us, we're in

big trouble.

HAN: Not if I can help it. Chewie...jam it's transmissions.

BEN: It'd be as well to let it go. It's too far out of range.

HAN: Not for long...

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	The pirateship zooms over the camera and away into the

	vastness of space after the Imperial TIE fighter.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT.

	The tension mounts as the pirateship gains on the tiny fighter.

	In the distance, one of the stars becomes brighter until it is

	obvious that the TIE ship is heading for it. Ben stands behind

	Chewbacca.

BEN: A fighter that size couldn't get this deep into space on its own.

LUKE It must have gotten lost, been part of a convoy or something.

HAN: Well, he ain't going to be around long enough to tell anyone

about us.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	The TIE fighter is losing ground to the larger pirateship as

	they race toward camera and disappear over head.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT.

	The distant star can be distinguished as a small moon or

	planet.

LUKE: Look at him. He's headed for that small moon.

HAN: I think I can get him before he gets there...he's almost in

range.

		 The small moon begins to take on the appearance of a

	monstrous spherical battle station.

BEN: That's no moon! It's a space station.

HAN: It's too big to be a space station.

LUKE: I have a very bad feeling about this.

HAN: Yeah, I think your right. Full reverse! Chewie, lock in the

auxiliary power.

		 The pirateship shudders and the TIE fighter accelerates

	away toward the gargantuan battle station.

LUKE: Why are we still moving towards it?

HAN: We're caught in a tractor beam! It's pulling us in!

LUKE: But there's gotta be something you can do!

HAN: There's nothin' I can do about it, kid. I'm in full power. I'm

going to have to shut down. But they're not going to get me without a

fight!

		 Ben Kenobi puts a hand on his shoulder.

BEN: You can't win. But there are alternatives to fighting.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- DEATH STAR.

	As the battered pirate starship is towed closer to the awesome

	metal moon, the immense size of the massive battle station

	becomes staggering. Running along the equator of the gigantic

	sphere is a mile-high band of huge docking ports into which

	the helpless pirateship is dragged.

EXTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- HUGE PORT DOORS.

	The helpless Millennium Falcon is pulled past a docking port

	control room and huge laser turret cannons.

VOICE OVER DEATH STAR INTERCOM: Clear Bay twenty-three-seven. We are

opening the magnetic field.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- DOCKING BAY 2037.

	The pirateship is pulled in through port doors of the Death

	Star, coming to rest in a huge hangar. Thirty stormtroopers

	stand at attention in a central assembly area.

OFFICER: To you stations!

OFFICER: (to another officer) Come with me.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- HALLWAY.

	Stormtroopers run to their posts.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- HANGAR 2037.

	A line of stormtroopers march toward the pirateship in

	readiness to board it, while other troopers stand with weapons

	ready to fire.

OFFICER: Close all outboard shields! Close all outboard shields!

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- CONFERENCE ROOM.

 

	Tarkin pushes a button and responds to the intercom buzz.

TARKIN: Yes.

VOICE: (over intercom) We've captured a freighter entering the remains

of the Alderaan system. It's markings match those of a ship that

blasted its way out of Mos Eisley.

VADER: They must be trying to return the stolen plans to the princess.

She may yet be of some use to us.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- DOCKING BAY 2037.

	Vader and a commander approach the troops as an Officer and

	several heavily armed troops exit the spacecraft.

VOICE: (over intercom) Unlock one-five-seven and nine. Release

charges.

OFFICER: (to Vader) There's no one on board, sir. According to the

log, the crew abandoned ship right after takeoff. It must be a decoy,

sir. Several of the escape pods have been jettisoned.

VADER: Did you find any droids?

OFFICER: No, sir. If there were any on board, they must also have

jettisoned.

VADER: Send a scanning crew on board. I want every part of this ship

checked.

OFFICER: Yes, sir.

VADER: I sense something...a presence I haven't felt since...

		 Vader turns quickly and exits the hangar.

OFFICER: Get me a scanning crew in here on the double. I want every

part of this ship checked!

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- HALLWAY.

	A trooper runs through the hallway heading for the exit. In a

	few moments all is quiet. The muffled sounds of a distant

	officer giving orders finally fade. Two floor panels suddenly

	pop up revealing Han Solo and Luke. Ben Kenobi sticks his head

	out of a third locker.

LUKE: Boy, it's lucky you had these compartments.

HAN: I use them for smuggling. I never thought I'd be smuggling myself

in them. This is ridiculous. Even if I could take off, I'd never get

past the tractor beam.

BEN: Leave that to me!

HAN: Damn fool. I knew that you were going to say that!

BEN: Who's the more foolish...the fool or the fool who follows him?

		 Han shakes his head, muttering to himself. Chewbacca

	agrees.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- MAIN FORWARD BAY.

	The crewmen carry a heavy box on board the ship, past the two

	stormtroopers guarding either side of the ramp.

TROOPER: The ship's all yours. If the scanners pick up anything,

report it immediately. All right, let's go.

		 The crewmen enter the pirateship and a loud crashing sound

	is followed by a voice calling to the guard below.

HAN'S VOICE: Hey down there, could you give us a hand with this?

		 The stormtroopers enter the ship and a quick round of

	gunfire is heard.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- FORWARD BAY -- COMMAND OFFICE.

	In a very small command office near the entrance to the

	pirateship, a Gantry Officer looks out his window and notices

	the guards are missing. He speaks into the comlink.

GANTRY OFFICER: TX-four-one-two. Why aren't you at your post?


TX-four-one-two, do you copy? 

		 A stormtrooper comes down the ramp of the pirateship and

	waves to the gantry officer, pointing to his ear indicating

	his comlink is not working. The gantry officer shakes his head

	in disgust and heads for the door, giving his aide an annoyed

	look.

GANTRY OFFICER: Take over. We've got a bad transmitter. I'll see what

I can do.

		 As the officer approaches the door, it slides open

	revealing the towering Chewbacca. The gantry officer, in a

	momentary state of shock, stumbles backward. With a bone-

	chilling howl, the giant Wookiee flattens the officer with one

	blow. The aide immediately reaches for his pistol, but is

	blasted by Han, dressed as an Imperial stormtrooper. Ben and

	the robots enter the room quickly followed by Luke, also

	dressed as a stormtrooper. Luke quickly removes his helmet.

LUKE: You know, between his howling and your blasting everything in

sight, it's a wonder the whole station doesn't know we're here.

HAN: Bring them on! I prefer a straight fight to all this sneaking

around.

THREEPIO: We found the computer outlet, sir.

		 Ben feeds some information into the computer and a map of

	the city appears on the monitor. He begins to inspect it

	carefully. Threepio and Artoo look over the control panel.

	Artoo finds something that makes him whistle wildly.

BEN: Plug in. He should be able to interpret the entire Imperial

computer network.

		 Artoo punches his claw arm into the computer socket and the

	vast Imperial brain network comes to life, feeding information

	to the little robot. After a few moments, he beeps something.

THREEPIO: He says he's found the main computer to power the tractor

beam that's holding the ship here. He'll try to make the precise

location appear on the monitor.

		 The computer monitor flashes readouts.

THREEPIO: The tractor beam is coupled to the main reactor in seven

locations. A power loss at one of the terminals will allow the ship to

leave.

		 Ben studies the data on the monitor readout.

BEN: I don't think you boys can help. I must go alone.

HAN: Whatever you say. I've done more that I bargained for on this

trip already.

LUKE: I want to go with you.

BEN: Be patient, Luke. Stay and watch over the droids.

LUKE: But he can...

BEN: They must be delivered safely or other star systems will suffer

the same fate as Alderaan. Your destiny lies along a different path

than mine. The Force will be with you...always!

		 Ben adjusts the lightsaber on his belt and silently steps

	out of the command office, then disappears down a long grey

	hallway. Chewbacca barks a comment and Han shakes his head in

	agreement.

HAN: Boy you said it, Chewie.

		 Han looks at Luke.

HAN: Where did you dig up that old fossil?

LUKE: Ben is a great man.

HAN: Yeah, great at getting us into trouble.

LUKE: I didn't hear you give any ideas...

HAN: Well, anything would be better than just hanging around waiting

for him to pick us up...

LUKE: Who do you think...

		 Suddenly Artoo begins to whistle and beep a blue streak.

	Luke goes over to him.

LUKE: What is it?

THREEPIO: I'm afraid I'm not quite sure, sir. He says "I found her",


and keeps repeating, "She's here."

LUKE: Well, who...who has he found?

		 Artoo whistles a frantic reply.

THREEPIO: Princess Leia.

LUKE: The princess? She's here?

HAN: Princess? What's going on?

THREEPIO: Level five. Detention block A A-twenty-three. I'm afraid

she's scheduled to be terminated.

LUKE: Oh, no! We've got to do something.

HAN: What are you talking about?

LUKE: The droid belongs to her. She's the one in the message.. We've

got to help her.

HAN: Now, look, don't get any funny ideas. The old man wants us to

wait right here.

LUKE: But he didn't know she was here. Look, will you just find a way

back into the detention block?

HAN: I'm not going anywhere.

LUKE: They're going to execute her. Look, a few minutes ago you said

you didn't want to just wait here to be captured. Now all you want to

do is stay. 

HAN: Marching into the detention area is not what I had in mind.

LUKE: But they're going to kill her!

HAN: Better her than me...

LUKE: She's rich.

		 Chewbacca growls.

HAN: Rich?

LUKE: Yes. Rich, powerful! Listen, if you were to rescue her, the

reward would be...

HAN: What?

LUKE: Well more wealth that you can imagine.

HAN: I don't know, I can imagine quite a bit!

LUKE: You'll get it!

HAN: I better!

LUKE: You will...

HAN: All right, kid. But you'd better be right about this.

		 Han looks at Chewie, who grunts a short grunt.

LUKE: All right.

HAN: What's your plan?

LUKE: Uh...Threepio, hand me those binders there will you?

		 Luke moves toward Chewbacca with electronic cuffs.

LUKE: Okay. Now, I'm going to put these on you.

		 Chewie lets out a hideous growl.



LUKE: Okay. Han, you put these on.

		 Luke sheepishly hands the binders to Han.

HAN: Don't worry, Chewie. I think I know what he has in mind.

		 The Wookiee has a worried and frightened look on his face

	as Han binds him with the electronic cuffs.

THREEPIO: Master Luke, sir! Pardon me for asking...but, ah...what

should Artoo and I do if we're discovered here?

LUKE: Lock the door!

HAN: And hope they don't have blasters.

THREEPIO: That isn't very reassuring.

		 Luke and Han put on their armored stormtrooper helmets and

	start off into the giant Imperial Death Star.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- DETENTION AREA -- ELEVATOR TUBE.

	Han and Luke try to look inconspicuous in their armored suits

	as they wait for a vacuum elevator to arrive. Troops,

	bureaucrats, and robots bustle about, ignoring the trio

	completely. Only a few give the giant Wookiee a curious

	glance.

		 Finally a small elevator arrives and the trio enters.

LUKE: I can't see a thing in this helmet.

	A bureaucrat races to get aboard also, but is signaled away by

	Han. The door to the pod-like vehicle slides closed and the

	elevator car takes off through a vacuum tube.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- MAIN HALLWAY.

	Several Imperial officers walk through the wide main

	passageway. They pass several stormtroopers and a robot

	similar to Threepio but with an insect face. At the far end of

	the hallway, a passing flash of Ben Kenobi appears, then

	disappears down a small hallway. His appearance is so fleeting

	that it is hard to tell if he is real or just an illusion. No

	one in the hallway seems to notice him.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- INTERIOR ELEVATOR -- DETENTION SECURITY AREA.

	Luke and Han step forward to exit the elevator, but the door

	slides open behind them. The giant Wookiee and his two guards

	enter the old grey security station. Guards and laser gates

	are everywhere. Han whispers to Luke under his breath.

HAN: This is not going to work.

LUKE: Why didn't you say so before?

HAN: I did say so before!

INTERIOR: DETENTION AREA.

	Elevator doors open. A tall, grim looking Officer approaches

	the trio.

OFFICER: Where are you taking this...thing?

		 Chewie growls a bit at the remark but Han nudges him to

	shut up.

LUKE: Prisoner transfer from Block one-one-three-eight.

OFFICER: I wasn't notified. I'll have to clear it.

		 The officer goes back to his console and begins to punch in

	the information. There are only three other troopers in the

	area. Luke and Han survey the situation, checking all of the

	alarms, laser gates, and camera eyes. Han unfastens one of

	Chewbacca's electronic cuffs and shrugs to Luke.

		 Suddenly Chewbacca throws up his hands and lets out with

	one of his ear-piercing howls. He grabs Han's laser rifle.

HAN: Look out! He's loose!

LUKE: He's going to pull us all apart.

HAN: Go get him!

		 The startled guards are momentarily dumbfounded. Luke and

	Han have already pulled out their laser pistols and are

	blasting away at the terrifying Wookiee. Their barrage of

	laserfire misses Chewbacca, but hits the camera eyes, laser

	gate controls, and the Imperial guards. The officer is the

	last of the guards to fall under the laserfire just as he is

	about to push the alarm system. Han rushes to the comlink

	system, which is screeching questions about what is going on.

	He quickly checks the computer readout.

HAN: We've got to find out which cell this princess of yours is in.

Here it is...cell twenty-one-eight-seven. You go get her. I'll hold

them here.

	Luke races down one of the cell corridors. Han speaks into the

	buzzing comlink.

HAN: (sounding official) Everything is under control. Situation

normal.

INTERCOM VOICE: What happened?

HAN: (getting nervous) Uh...had a slight weapons malfunction. But, uh,

everything's perfectly all right now. We're fine. We're all fine here,

now, thank you. How are you?

INTERCOM VOICE: We're sending a squad up.

HAN: Uh, uh, negative. We had a reactor leak here now. Give us a few

minutes to lock it down. Large leak...very dangerous.

INTERCOM VOICE: Who is this? What's your operating number?

		 Han blasts the comlink and it explodes.

HAN: Boring conversation anyway. (yelling down the hall) Luke! We're

going to have company!

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- CELL ROW.

	Luke stops in front of one of the cells and blasts the door

	away with a laser pistol. When the smoke clears, Luke sees the

	dazzling young princess-senator. She had been sleeping and is

	now looking at him with an uncomprehending look on her face.

	Luke is stunned by her incredible beauty and stands staring at

	her with his mouth hanging open.

LEIA: (finally) Aren't you a little short to be a stormtrooper?

		 Luke takes off his helmet, coming out of it.

LUKE: What? Oh...the uniform. I'm Luke Skywalker. I'm here to rescue

you. 

LEIA: You're who?

LUKE: I'm here to rescue you. I've got your R2 unit. I'm here with Ben

Kenobi.

LEIA: Ben Kenobi is here! Where is he?

LUKE: Come on!

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- CONFERENCE ROOM.

	Darth Vader paces the room as Governor Tarkin sits at the far

	end of the conference table.

VADER: He is here...

TARKIN: Obi-Wan Kenobi! What makes you think so?

VADER: A tremor in the Force. The last time I felt it was in the

presence of my old master.

TARKIN: Surely he must be dead by now.

VADER: Don't underestimate the power of the Force.

TARKIN: The Jedi are extinct, their fire has gone out of the universe.

You, my friend, are all that's left of their religion.

		 There is a quiet buzz on the comlink.

TARKIN: Yes.

INTERCOM VOICE: Governor Tarkin, we have an emergency alert in

detention block A A-twenty-three.

TARKIN: The princess! Put all sections on alert!

VADER: Obi-Wan is here. The Force is with him.

TARKIN: If you're right, he must not be allowed to escape.

VADER: Escape is not his plan. I must face him alone.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- DETENTION AREA -- HALLWAY.

	An ominous buzzing sound is heard on the other side of the

	elevator door.

HAN: Chewie!

	Chewbacca responds with a growling noise.

HAN: Get behind me! Get behind me!

		 A series of explosions knock a hole in the elevator door

	through which several Imperial troops begin to emerge.

		 Han and Chewie fire laser pistols at them through the smoke

	and flame. They turn and run down the cell hallway, meeting up

	with Luke and Leia rushing toward them.

HAN: Can't get out that way.

LEIA: Looks like you managed to cut off our only escape route.

HAN: (sarcastically) Maybe you'd like it back in your cell, Your

Highness.

		 Luke takes a small comlink transmitter from his belt as

	they continue to exchange fire with stormtroopers making their

	way down the corridor.

LUKE: See-Threepio! See-Threepio!

THREEPIO: (over comlink) Yes sir?

LUKE: We've been cut off! Are there any other ways out of the cell

bay?...What was that? I didn't copy!

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- MAIN BAY GANTRY -- CONTROL TOWER.

	Threepio paces the control center as little Artoo beeps and

	whistles a blue streak. Threepio yells into the small comlink

	transmitter.

THREEPIO: I said, all systems have been alerted to your presence, sir.

The main entrance seems to be the only way in or out; all other

information on your level is restricted.

		 Someone begins banging on the door.

TROOPER VOICE: Open up in there!

THREEPIO: Oh, no!

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- DETENTION CORRIDOR.

	Luke and Leia crouch together in an alcove for protection as

	they continue to exchange fire with troops. Han and Chewbacca

	are barely able to keep the stormtroopers at bay at the far

	and of the hallway. The laserfire is very intense, and smoke

	fills the narrow cell corridor.

LUKE: There isn't any other way out.

HAN: I can't hold them off forever! Now what?

LEIA: This is some rescue. When you came in here, didn't you have a

plan for getting out?

HAN: (pointing to Luke) He's the brains, sweetheart.

		 Luke manages a sheepish grin and shrugs his shoulders.

LUKE: Well, I didn't...

		 The princess grabs Luke's gun and fires at a small grate in

	the wall next to Han, almost frying him.

HAN: What the hell are you doing?



LEIA: Somebody has to save our skins. Into the garbage chute, wise

guy.

		 She jumps through the narrow opening as Han and Chewbacca

	look on in amazement. Chewbacca sniffs the garbage chute and

	says something.

HAN: Get in there you big furry oaf! I don't care what you smell! Get

in there and don't worry about it.

		 Han gives him a kick and the Wookiee disappears into the

	tiny opening. Luke and Han continue firing as they work their

	way toward the opening.

HAN: Wonderful girl! Either I'm going to kill her or I'm beginning to

like her. Get in there!

		 Luke ducks laserfire as he jumps into the darkness. Han

	fires off a couple of quick blasts creating a smokey cover,

	then slides into the chute himself and is gone.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- GARBAGE ROOM.

	Han tumbles into the large room filled with garbage and muck.

	Luke is already stumbling around looking for an exit. He finds

	a small hatchway and struggles to get it open. It won't budge.

HAN: (sarcastically) Oh! The garbage chute was a really wonderful

idea. What an incredible smell you've discovered! Let's get out of

here! Get away from there...

LUKE: No! wait!

		 Han draws his laser pistol and fires at the hatch. The

	laserbolt ricochets wildly around the small metal room.

	Everyone dives for cover in the garbage as the bolt explodes

	almost on top of them. Leia climbs out of the garbage with a

	rather grim look on her face.

LUKE: Will you forget it? I already tried it. It's magnetically

sealed!

LEIA: Put that thing away! You're going to get us all killed.

HAN: Absolutely, Your Worship. Look, I had everything under control

until you led us down here. You know, it's not going to take them long

to figure out what happened to us.

LEIA: It could be worst...

		 A loud, horrible, inhuman moan works its way up from the

	murky depths. Chewbacca lets out a terrified howl and begins

	to back away. Han and Luke stand fast with their laser pistols

	drawn. The Wookiee is cowering near one of the walls.

HAN: It's worst.

LUKE: There's something alive in here!

HAN: That's your imagination.

LUKE: Something just moves past my leg! Look! Did you see that?

HAN: What?

LUKE: Help!

		 Suddenly Luke is yanked under the garbage.

HAN: Luke! Luke! Luke!

		 Solo tries to get to Luke. Luke surfaces with a gasp of air

	and thrashing of limbs. A membrane tentacle is wrapped around

	his throat.

LEIA: Luke!

		 Leia extends a long pipe toward him.

LEIA: Luke, Luke, grab a hold of this.

LUKE: Blast it, will you! My gun's jammed.

HAN: Where?

LUKE: Anywhere! Oh!!

		 Solo fires his gun downward. Luke is pulled back into the

	muck by the slimy tentacle.

HAN: Luke! Luke!

		 Suddenly the walls of the garbage receptacle shudder and

	move in a couple of inches. Then everything is deathly quiet.

	Han and Leia give each other a worried look as Chewbacca howls

	in the corner. With a rush of bubbles and muck Luke suddenly

	bobs to the surface.

LEIA: Grab him!

		 Luke seems to be released by the thing.

LEIA: What happened?

LUKE: I don't know, it just let go of me and disappeared...

HAN: I've got a very bad feeling about this.

		 Before anyone can say anything the walls begin to rumble

	and edge toward the Rebels.

LUKE: The walls are moving!

LEIA: Don't just stand there. Try to brace it with something.

		 They place poles and long metal beams between the closing

	walls, but they are simply snapped and bent as the giant

	trashmasher rumbles on. The situation doesn't look too good.

LUKE: Wait a minute!

		 Luke pulls out his comlink.

LUKE: Threepio! Come in Threepio! Threepio! Where could he be?

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- MAIN GANTRY -- COMMAND OFFICE.

	A soft buzzer and the muted voice of Luke calling out for

	See-Threepio can be heard on Threepio's hand comlink, which is

	sitting on the deserted computer console. Artoo and Threepio

	are nowhere in sight. Suddenly there is a great explosion and

	the door of the control tower flies across the floor. Four

	armed stormtroopers enter the chamber.

FIRST TROOPER: Take over! (pointing to the dead officer) See to him!

Look there!

		 A trooper pushes a button and the supply cabinet door

	slides open. See-Threepio and Artoo-Detoo are inside. Artoo

	follows his bronze companion out into the office.

THREEPIO: They're madmen! They're heading for the prison level. If you

hurry, you might catch them.

FIRST OFFICER: (to his troops) Follow me! You stand guard.

		 The troops hustle off down the hallway, leaving a guard to

	watch over the command office.

THREEPIO: (to Artoo) Come on!

		 The guard aims a blaster at them.

THREEPIO: Oh! All this excitement has overrun the circuits of my

counterpart here. If you don't mind, I'd like to take him down to

maintenance.

TROOPER: All right.

		 The guard nods and Threepio, with little Artoo in tow,

	hurries out the door.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- GARBAGE ROOM.

	As the walls rumble closed, the room gets smaller and smaller.

Chewie is whining and trying to hold a wall back with his giant paws.

Han is leaning back against the other wall. Garbage is snapping and

popping. Luke is trying to reach Threepio.

LUKE: Threepio! Come in, Threepio! Threepio!

		 Han and Leia try to brace the contracting walls with a

	pole. Leia begins to sink into the trash.

HAN: Get to the top!

LEIA: I can't 

LUKE: Where could he be? Threepio! Threepio, will you come in?

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- MAIN FORWARD BAY -- SERVICE PANEL.

THREEPIO: They aren't here! Something must have happened to them. See

if they've been captured.

		 Little Artoo carefully plugs his claw arm into a new wall

	socket and a complex array of electronic sounds spew from the

	tiny robot.

THREEPIO: Hurry!

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- GARBAGE ROOM.

	The walls are only feet apart. Leia and Han are braced against

	the walls. The princess is frightened. They look at each

	other. Leia reaches out and takes Han's hand and she holds it

	tightly. She's terrified and suddenly groans as she feels the

	first crushing pressure against her body.

HAN: One thing's for sure. We're all going to be a lot thinner! (to

Leia) Get on top of it!

LEIA: I'm trying!

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- MAIN FORWARD BAY -- SERVICE PANEL.

THREEPIO: (to Artoo) Thank goodness, they haven't found them! Where

could they be?

	

		 Artoo frantically beeps something to See-Threepio.

THREEPIO: Use the comlink? Oh, my! I forgot I turned it off!

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- GARBAGE ROOM.

	Meanwhile, Luke is lying on his side, trying to keep his head

	above the rising ooze. Luke's comlink begins to buzz and he

	rips it off his belt.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- MAIN FORWARD BAY -- SERVICE PANEL.

	Muffled sounds of Luke's voice over the comlink can be heard,

	but not distinctly.

THREEPIO: Are you there, sir?

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- GARBAGE ROOM.

LUKE: Threepio!

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- MAIN FORWARD BAY -- SERVICE PANEL.

THREEPIO: We've had some problems...

LUKE: (over comlink) Will you shut up and listen to me? Shut down all

garbage mashers on the detention level, will you? Do you copy?

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- GARBAGE ROOM.

LUKE: Shut down all the garbage mashers on the detention level.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- MAIN FORWARD BAY -- SERVICE PANEL.

LUKE: (over comlink) Shut down all the garbage mashers on the

detention level.

THREEPIO: (to Artoo) No. Shut them all down! Hurry!

		 Threepio holds his head in agony as he hears the incredible

	screaming and hollering from Luke's comlink.

THREEPIO: Listen to them! They're dying, Artoo! Curse my metal body! I

wasn't fast enough. It's all my fault! My poor master!

LUKE: (over comlink) Threepio, we're all right!

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- GARBAGE ROOM.

	The screaming and hollering is the sound of joyous relief. The

	walls have stopped moving. Han, Chewie and Leia embrace in the

	background.

LUKE: We're all right. You did great.

		 Luke moves to the pressure sensitive hatch, looking for a

	number.

LUKE: Hey...hey, open the pressure maintenance hatch on unit number...

where are we?

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- MAIN FORWARD BAY -- SERVICE PANEL.

HAN: (over comlink) Three-two-six-eight-two-seven.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- TRACTOR BEAM -- POWER GENERATOR TRENCH.

	Ben enters a humming service trench that powers the huge

	tractor beam. The trench seems to be a hundred miles deep. The

	clacking sound of huge switching devices can be heard. The old

	Jedi edges his his way along a narrow ledge leading to a

	control panel that connects two large cables. He carefully

	makes several adjustments in the computer terminal, and

	several lights on the board go from red to blue.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- UNUSED HALLWAY.

	The group exits the garbage room into a dusty, unused hallway.

	Han and Luke remove the trooper suits and strap on the blaster

	belts.

HAN: If we can just avoid any more female advice, we ought to be able

to get out of here.

		 Luke smiles and scratches his head as he takes a blaster

	from Solo.

LUKE: Well, let's get moving!

		 Chewie begins growling and points to the hatch to the

	garbage room, as he runs away and then stops howling.

HAN: (to Chewie) Where are you going?

		 The Dia Nogu bangs against the hatch and a long, slimy

	tentacle works its way out of the doorway searching for a

	victim. Han aims his pistol.

LEIA: No, wait. They'll hear!

		 Han fires at the doorway. The noise of the blast echoes

	relentlessly throughout the empty passageway. Luke simply

	shakes his head in disgust.

HAN: (to Chewie) Come here, you big coward!

		 Chewie shakes his head "no."

HAN: Chewie! Come here!

LEIA: Listen. I don't know who you are, or where you came from, but

from now on, you do as I tell you. Okay?

		 Han is stunned at the command of the petite young girl.

HAN: Look, Your Worshipfulness, let's get one thing straight! I take

orders from one person! Me!

LEIA: It's a wonder you're still alive. (looking at Chewie) Will

somebody get this big walking carpet out of my way?

		 Han watches her start away. He looks at Luke.

HAN: No reward is worth this.

		 They follow her, moving swiftly down the deserted corridor.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- POWER TRENCH.

	Suddenly a door behind Ben slides open and a detachment of

	stormtroopers marches to the power trench. Ben instantly slips

	into the shadows as an Officer moves to within a few feet of

	him.

OFFICER: Secure this area until the alert is canceled.

FIRST TROOPER: Give me regular reports.

		 All but two of the stormtroopers leave.

FIRST TROOPER: Do you know what's going on?

SECOND TROOPER: Maybe it's another drill.

		 Ben moves around the tractor beam, watching the

	stormtroopers as they turn their backs to him. Ben gestures

	with his hand toward them, as the troops think they hear

	something in the other hallway. With the help of the Force,

	Ben deftly slips past the troopers and into the main hallway.

SECOND TROOPER: What was that?

FIRST TROOPER: Oh, it's nothing. Don't worry about it.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- HALLWAY.

	Luke, Han, Chewbacca, and Leia run down an empty hallway and

	stop before a bay window overlooking the pirateship. Troopers

	are milling about the ship. Luke takes out his pocket comlink.

HAN: (looking at his ship) There she is.

LUKE: See-Threepio, do you copy?

THREEPIO: (voice) For the moment. Uh, we're in the main hangar across

from the ship.

LUKE: We're right above you. Stand by.

		 Han is watching the dozen or so troops moving in and out of

	the pirateship. Leia moves towards Han, touches his arm and

	points out the window to the ship.

LEIA: You came in that thing? You're braver that I thought.

HAN: Nice! Come on!

		 Han gives her a dirty look, and they start off down the

	hallway. They round a corner and run right into twenty

	Imperial stormtroopers heading toward them. Both groups are

	taken by surprise and stop in their tracks.

FIRST TROOPER: It's them! Blast them!

		 Before even thinking, Han draws his laser pistol and

	charges the troops, firing. His blaster knocks one of the

	stormtroopers into the air. Chewie follows his captain down

	the corridor, stepping over the fallen trooper on the floor.

HAN: (to Luke and Leia) Get back to the ship!

LUKE: Where are you going? Come back!

		 Han has already rounded a corner and does not hear.

LEIA: He certainly has courage.

LUKE: What good will it do us if he gets himself killed? Come on!

		 Luke is furious but doesn't have time to think about it for

	muted alarms begin to go off down on the hangar deck. Luke and

	Leia start off toward the starship hangar.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- SUBHALLWAY.

	Han chases the stormtroopers down a long subhallway. He is

	yelling and brandishing his laser pistol. The troops reach a

	dead end and are forced to turn and fight. Han stops a few

	feet from them and assumes a defensive position. The troops

	begin to raise their laser guns. Soon all ten troopers are

	moving into an attack position in front of the lone

	starpirate. Han's determined look begins to fade as the troops

	begin to advance. Solo jumps backward as they fire at him.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- SUBHALLWAY.

	Chewbacca runs down the subhallway in a last-ditch attempt to

	save his bold captain. Suddenly he hears the firing of laser

	guns and yelling. Around the corner shoots Han, pirate

	extraordinaire, running for his life, followed by a host of

	furious stormtroopers. Chewbacca turns and starts running the

	other way also.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- SUBHALLWAY.

	Luke fires his laser pistol wildly as he and Leia rush down a

	narrow subhallway, chased by several stormtroopers. They

	quickly reach the end of the subhallway and race through an

	open hatchway.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- CENTRAL CORE SHAFT.

	Luke and Leia race through the hatch onto a narrow bridge that

	spans a huge, deep shaft that seems to go into infinity. The

	bridge has been retracted into the wall of the shaft, and Luke

	almost rushes into the abyss. He loses his balance off the end

	of the bridge as Leia, behind him, takes hold of his arm and

	pulls him back.

LUKE: (gasping) I think we took a wrong turn.

		 Blasts from the stormtroopers' laser guns explode nearby

	reminding them of the oncoming danger. Luke fires back at the

	advancing troops. Leia reaches over and hits a switch that

	pops the hatch door shut with a resounding boom, leaving them

	precariously perched on a short piece of bridge overhang.

	Laserfire from the troopers continues to hit the steel door.

LEIA: There's no lock!

		 Luke blasts the controls with his laser pistol.

LUKE: That oughta hold it for a while.

LEIA: Quick, we've got to get across. Find the control that extends

the bridge.

LUKE: Oh, I think I just blasted it.

		 Luke looks at the blasted bridge control while the

	stormtroopers on the opposite side of the door begin making

	ominous drilling and pounding sounds.

LEIA: They're coming through!

		 Luke notices something on his stormtrooper belt, when

	laserfire hits the wall behind him. Luke aims his laser pistol

	at a stormtrooper perched on a higher bridge overhang across

	the abyss from them. They exchange fire. Two more troops

	appear on another overhang, also firing. A trooper is hit, and

	grabs at his chest.

		 Another trooper standing on the bridge overhang is hit by

	Luke's laserfire, and plummets down the shaft. Troopers move

	back off the bridge; Luke hands the gun to Leia.

LUKE: Here, hold this.

		 Luke pulls a thin nylon cable from his trooper utility

	belt. It has a grappler hook on it. A trooper appears on a

	bridge overhang and fires at Luke and Leia. As Luke works with

	the rope, Leia returns the laser volley. Another trooper

	appears and fires at them, as Leia returns his fire as well.

	Suddenly, the hatch door begins to open, revealing the feet of

	more troops.

LEIA: Here they come!

		 Leia hits one of the stormtroopers on the bridge above, and

	he falls into the abyss. Luke tosses the rope across the gorge

	and it wraps itself around an outcropping of pipes. He tugs on

	the rope to make sure it is secure, then grabs the princess in

	his arms. Leia looks at Luke, then kisses him quickly on the

	lips. Luke is very surprised.

LEIA: For luck!

		 Luke pushes off and they swing across the treacherous abyss

	to the corresponding hatchway on the opposite side. Just as

	Luke and Leia reach the far side of the canyon, the

	stormtroopers break through the hatch and begin to fire at

	the escaping duo. Luke returns the fire before ducking into

	the tiny subhallway.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- NARROW PASSAGEWAY.

	Ben hides in the shadows of the narrow passageway as several

	stormtroopers rush past him in the main hallway. He checks to

	make sure they're gone, then runs down the hallway in the

	opposite direction. Darth Vader appears at the far end of the

	hallway and starts after the old Jedi.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- MAIN FORWARD BAY.

	Threepio looks around at the troops milling about the

	pirateship entry ramp.

THREEPIO: Where could they be?

		 Artoo, plugged into the computer socket, turns his dome

	left and right, beeping a response.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- CORRIDOR -- BLAST SHIELDS DOOR.

	Han and Chewbacca run down a long corridor with several

	troopers hot on their trail.

TROOPER: Close the blast doors!

		 At the end of the hallway, blast doors begin to close in

	front of them. The young starpilot and his furry companion

	race past the huge doors just as they are closing, and manage

	to get off a couple off laserblasts at the pursuing troops

	before the doors slam shut.

TROOPER: Open the blast doors! Open the blast doors!

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- HALLWAY LEADING TO MAIN FORWARD BAY.

	Ben hurries along one of the tunnels leading to the hangar

	where the pirateship waits. Just before he reaches the hangar,

	Darth Vader steps into view at the end of the tunnel, not ten

	feet away. Vader lights his saber. Ben also ignites his and

	steps slowly forward.

VADER: I've been waiting for you, Obi-Wan. We meet again, at last. The

circle is now complete.

		 Ben Kenobi moves with elegant ease into a classical

	offensive position. The fearsome Dark Knight takes a defensive

	stance.

VADER: When I left you, I was but the learner; now I am the master.

BEN: Only a master of evil, Darth.

		 The two Galactic warriors stand perfectly still for a few

	moments, sizing each other up and waiting for the right

	moment. Ben seems to be under increasing pressure and strain,

	as if an invisible weight were being placed upon him. He

	shakes his head and, blinking, tries to clear his eyes. 

		 Ben makes a sudden lunge at the huge warrior but is checked

	by a lightning movement of The Sith. A masterful slash stroke

	by Vader is blocked by the old Jedi. Another of the Jedi's

	blows is blocked, then countered. Ben moves around the Dark

	Lord and starts backing into the massive starship hangar. The

	two powerful warriors stand motionless for a few moments with

	laser swords locked in mid-air, creating a low buzzing sound.

VADER: Your powers are weak, old man.

BEN: You can't win, Darth. If you strike me down, I shall become more

powerful than you can possibly imagine.

		 Their lightsabers continue to meet in combat.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- MAIN FORWARD BAY.

	Han Solo and Chewbacca, their weapons in hand, lean back

	against the wall surveying the forward bay, watching the

	Imperial stormtroopers make their rounds of the hangar.

HAN: Didn't we just leave this party?

		 Chewbacca growls a reply, as Luke and the princess join

	them.

HAN: What kept you?

LEIA: We ran into some old friends.

LUKE: Is the ship all right?

HAN: Seems okay, if we can get to it. Just hope the old man got the

tractor beam out of commission.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- HALLWAY.

	Vader and Ben Kenobi continue their powerful duel. As they hit

	their lightsabers together, lightning flashes on impact.

	Troopers look on in interest as the old Jedi and Dark Lord of

	The Sith fight. Suddenly Luke spots the battle from his

	group's vantage point.

LUKE: Look!

		 Luke, Leia, Han, and Chewie look up and see Ben and Vader

	emerging from the hallways on the far side of the docking bay.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- DOCKING BAY.

	Threepio and Artoo-Detoo are in the center of the Death Star's

	Imperial docking bay.

THREEPIO: Come on, Artoo, we're going!

		 Threepio ducks out of sight as the seven stormtroopers who

	were guarding the starship rush past them heading towards Ben

	and The Sith Knight. He pulls on Artoo.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- HALLWAY.

	Solo, Chewie, Luke, and Leia tensely watch the duel. The

	troops rush toward the battling knights.

HAN: Now's our chance! Go!

	They start for the Millennium Falcon. Ben sees the troops

	charging toward him and realizes that he is trapped. Vader

	takes advantage of Ben's momentary distraction and brings his

	mighty lightsaber down on the old man. Ben manages to deflect


	the blow and swiftly turns around.

		 The old Jedi Knight looks over his shoulder at Luke, lifts

	his sword from Vader's then watches his opponent with a serene

	look on his face.

		 Vader brings his sword down, cutting old Ben in half. Ben's

	cloak falls to the floor in two parts, but Ben is not in it.

	Vader is puzzled at Ben's disappearance and pokes at the empty

	cloak. As the guards are distracted, the adventurers and the

	robots reach the starship. Luke sees Ben cut in two and starts

	for him. Aghast, he yells out.

LUKE: No!

		 The stormtroopers turn toward Luke and begin firing at him.

	The robots are already moving up the ramp into the Millennium

	Falcon, while Luke, transfixed by anger and awe, returns their

	fire. Solo joins in the laserfire. Vader looks up and advances

	toward them, as one of his troopers is struck down.

HAN: (to Luke) Come on!

LEIA: Come on! Luke, its too late!

HAN: Blast the door! Kid!

		 Luke fires his pistol at the door control panel, and it

	explodes. The door begins to slide shut. Three troopers charge

	forward firing laser bolts, as the door slides to a close

	behind them, shutting Vader and the other troops out of the

	docking bay. A stormtrooper lies dead at the feet of his

	onrushing compatriots. Luke starts for the advancing troops,

	as Solo and Leia move up the ramp into the pirateship. He

	fires, hitting a stormtrooper, who crumbles to the floor.

BEN'S VOICE: Run, Luke! Run!

		 Luke looks around to see where the voice came from. He

	turns toward the pirateship, ducking Imperial gunfire from the

	troopers and races into the ship.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT.

	Han pulls back on the controls and the ship begins to move. The

	dull thud of laser bolts bouncing off the outside of the ship

	as Chewie adjusts his controls.

HAN: I hope the old man got that tractor beam out if commission, or

this is going to be a real short trip. Okay, hit it!

		 Chewbacca growls in agreement.

EXTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON.

	The Millennium Falcon powers away from the Death Star docking

	bay, makes a spectacular turn and disappears into the vastness

	of space.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- CENTRAL HOLD AREA.

	Luke, saddened by the loss of Obi-Wan Kenobi, stares off

	blankly as the robots look on. Leia puts a blanket around him

	protectively, and Luke turns and looks up at her. She sits

	down beside him.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT.

	Solo spots approaching enemy ships.

HAN: (to Chewie) We're coming up on the sentry ships. Hold 'em off!

Angle the deflector shields while I charge up the main guns!

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- CENTRAL HOLD AREA.

	Luke looks downward sadly, shaking his head back and forth, as

	the princess smiles comfortingly at him.

LUKE: I can't believe he's gone.

		 Artoo-Detoo beeps a reply.

LEIA: There wasn't anything you could have done.

		 Han rushes into the hold area where Luke is sitting with

	the princess.

HAN: (to Luke) Come on, buddy, we're not out of this yet!

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- GUNPORTS -- COCKPIT.

	Solo climbs into his attack position in the topside gunport.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- HOLD AREA.

	Luke gets up and moves out toward the gunports as Leia heads

	for the cockpit.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- GUNPORTS -- COCKPIT.

	Luke climbs down the ladder into the gunport cockpit, settling

	into one of the two main laser cannons mounted in large

	rotating turrets on either side of the ship.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- SOLO'S GUNPORT.

	Han adjusts his headset as he sits before the controls of his

	laser cannon, then speaks into the attached microphone.

HAN: (to Luke) You in, kid? Okay, stay sharp!

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- GUNPORTS -- COCKPIT.

	Chewbacca and Princess Leia search the heavens for attacking

	TIE fighters. The Wookiee pulls back on the speed controls as

	the ship bounces slightly.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- SOLO'S GUNPORT -- COCKPIT.

	Computer graphic readouts form on Solo's target screen, as Han

	reaches for controls.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- GUNPORT -- COCKPIT.

	Luke sits in readiness for the attack, his hand on the laser

	cannon's control button.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT.

	Chewbacca spots the enemy ships and barks.

LEIA: (into intercom) Here they come!

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT -- POV (POINT OF VIEW) -- SPACE.

	The Imperial TIE fighters move towards the Millennium Falcon,

	one each veering off to the left and right of the pirateship.

INTERIOR: TIE FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	The stars whip past behind the Imperial pilot as he adjusts

	his maneuvering joy stick.

EXTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- IN SPACE.

	The TIE fighter races past the Falcon, firing laser beams as

	it passes.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- HOLD AREA.

	Threepio is seated in the hold area, next to Artoo-Detoo. The

	pirateship bounces and vibrates as the power goes out in the

	room and then comes back on.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT -- GUNPORTS.

	A TIE fighter maneuvers in front of Han, who follows it and

	fires at it with the laser cannon. Luke does likewise, as the


	fighter streaks into view. The ship has suffered a minor hit,

	and bounces slightly. 

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	Two TIE fighters dive down toward the pirateship.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- GUNPORTS.

	Luke fires at an unseen fighter.

LUKE: They're coming in too fast!

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- MILLENNIUM FALCON/TIE FIGHTERS.

	Pan with pirateship as two TIE fighters charge through the

	background. Laserbolts streak from all the craft.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- CHEWBACCA.

	The ship shudders as a laserbolt hits very close to the

	cockpit. The Wookiee chatters something to Leia.

EXTERIOR: TIE FIGHTER -- SPACE.

	Full shot of a TIE fighter as it moves fast through the frame,

	firing on the pirate starship.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- TIE FIGHTERS.

	The two TIE fighters fire a barrage of laserbeams at the

	pirateship.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- MAIN PASSAGEWAY.

	A laserbolt streaks into the side of the pirateship. The ship

	lurches violently, throwing poor Threepio into a cabinet fill

	of small computer chips.

THREEPIO: Oooh!

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT -- GUNPORTS.

	Leia watches the computer readout as Chewbacca manipulates the

	ship's controls.

LEIA: We've lost lateral controls.

HAN: Don't worry, she'll hold together.

		 An enemy laserbolt hits the pirateship's control panel,

	causing it to blow out in a shower of sparks.

HAN: (to ship) You hear me, baby? Hold together!

		 Artoo-Detoo advances toward the smoking sparking control

	panel, dousing the inferno by spraying it with fire retardant

	beeping all the while.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- GUNPORT.

	Luke swivels in his gun mount, following the TIE fighter with

	his laser cannon.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- GUNPORT.

	Solo aims his laser cannon at the enemy fighter.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	A TIE fighter streaks in front of the starship.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT.

	Leia watches the TIE fighter ship fly over.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	A TIE fighter heads right for the pirateship, then zooms

	overhead.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- GUNPORTS.

	Luke follows the TIE fighter across his field of view, firing

	laserbeams from his cannon.

EXTERIOR: TIE FIGHTER.

	A TIE fighter dives past the pirateship.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- GUNPORTS.

	Luke fires at a TIE fighter. At his port, Han follows a

	fighter in his sights, releasing a blast of laserfire. He

	connects, and the fighter explodes into fiery dust. Han laughs

	victoriously.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	Two TIE fighters move toward and over the Millennium Falcon,

	unleashing a barrage of laserbolts at the ship.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- GUNPORTS.

	Another TIE fighter moves in on the pirateship and Luke,

	smiling, fires the laser cannon at it, scoring a spectacular

	direct hit.

LUKE: Got him! I got him!

		 Han turns and gives Luke a victory wave which Luke

	gleefully returns.

HAN: Great kid! Don't get cocky.

		 Han turns back to his laser cannon.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	Two more TIE fighters cross in front of the pirateship.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT

	While Chewbacca manipulates the controls, Leia turns, looking

	over her shoulder out the ports.

LEIA: There are still two more of them out there!

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	A TIE fighter moves up over the pirateship, firing laserblasts

	at it.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- GUNPORTS.

	Luke and Han look into their respective projected target

	screens. An Imperial fighter crosses Solo's port, and Han

	swivels in his chair, following it with blasts from his laser

	cannon. Another fighter crosses Luke's port, and he reacts in

	a like manner, the glow of his target screen lighting his

	face.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	The TIE fighter zooms toward the pirateship, firing

	destructive blasts at it.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- GUNPORTS.

	Luke fires a laserblast at the approaching enemy fighter, and

	it bursts into a spectacular explosion. Luke's projected

	screen gives a readout of the hit. The pirateship bounces

	slightly as it is struck by the enemy fire.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- TIE FIGHTER.

	The last of the attacking Imperial TIE fighters looms in,

	firing upon the Falcon.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- GUNPORT.

	Solo swivels behind his cannon, his aim describing the arc of

	the TIE fighter. The fighter comes closer, firing at the

	pirateship, but a well-aimed blast from Solo's laser cannon

	hits the attacker, which blows up in a small atomic shower of

	burning fragments.

LUKE: (laughing) That's it! We did it!

		 The princess jumps up and gives Chewie a congratulatory

	hug.

LEIA: We did it!

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- PASSAGEWAY.

	Threepio lies on the floor of the ship, completely tangled in

	the smoking, sparking wires.

THREEPIO: Help! I think I'm melting! (to Artoo) This is all your

fault.

		 Artoo turns his dome from side to side, beeping in

	response.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- MILLENNIUM FALCON.

	The victorious Millennium Falcon moves off majestically

	through space.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- CONTROL ROOM.

	Darth Vader strides into the control room, where Tarkin is

	watching the huge view screen. A sea of stars is before him.

TARKIN: Are they away?

VADER: They have just made the jump into hyperspace.

TARKIN: You're sure the homing beacon is secure aboard their ship? I'm

taking an awful risk, Vader. This had better work.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT.

	Han, removes his gloves and smiling, is at the controls of the

	ship. Chewie moves into the aft section to check the damage.

	Leia is seated near Han.

HAN: Not a bad bit of rescuing, huh? You know, sometimes I even amaze

myself.

LEIA: That doesn't sound too hard. Besides, they let us go. It's the

only explanation for the ease of our escape.

HAN: Easy...you call that easy?

LEIA: Their tracking us!

HAN: Not this ship, sister.

		 Frustrated, Leia shakes her head.

LEIA: At least the information in Artoo is still intact.

HAN: What's so important? What's he carrying?

LEIA: The technical readouts of that battle station. I only hope that

when the data is analyzed, a weakness can be found. It's not over yet!

HAN: It is for me, sister! Look, I ain't in this for your revolution,

and I'm not in it for you, Princess. I expect to be well paid. I'm in

it for the money!

LEIA: You needn't worry about your reward. If money is all that you

love, then that's what you'll receive!

		 She angrily turns, and as she starts out of the cockpit,

	passes Luke coming in.

LEIA: Your friend is quite a mercenary. I wonder if he really cares

about anything...or anyone.

LUKE: I care!

		 Luke, shaking his head, sits in the copilot seat. He and

	Han stare out at the vast blackness of space.

LUKE: So...what do you think of her, Han?

HAN: I'm trying not to, kid!

LUKE: (under his breath) Good...

HAN: Still, she's got a lot of spirit. I don't know, what do you


think? Do you think a princess and a guy like me...

LUKE: No!

		 Luke says it with finality and looks away. Han smiles at

	young Luke's jealousy.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN.

	The battered pirateship drifts into orbit around the planet

	Yavin and proceeds to one of its tiny green moons.

EXTERIOR: FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN.

	The pirateship soars over the dense jungle.

EXTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST.

	An alert guard, his laser gun in hand, scans the countryside.

	He sets the gun down and looks toward the temple, barely

	visible in the foliage.

EXTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- JUNGLE TEMPLE.

	Rotting in a forest of gargantuan trees, an ancient temple

	lies shrouded in an eerie mist. The air is heavy with the

	fantastic cries of unimaginable creatures. Han, Luke and the

	others are greeted by the Rebel troops.

		 Luke and the group ride into the massive temple on an

	armored military speeder.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI -- MAIN HANGAR DECK.

	The military speeder stops in a huge spaceship hangar, set up

	in the interior of the crumbling temple. Willard, the

	commander of the Rebel forces, rushes up to the group and

	gives Leia a big hug. Every one is pleased to see her.

WILLARD: (holding Leia) You're safe! We had feared the worst.

		 Willard composes himself, steps back and bows formally.

WILLARD: When we heard about Alderaan, we were afraid that you were...

lost along with your father.

LEIA: We don't have time for our sorrows, Commander. The battle

station has surely tracked us here (looking pointedly to Han). It's

the only explanation for the ease of our escape. You must use the

information in this R2 unit to plan the attack. It is our only hope.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	The surface of the Death Star ominously approaches the red

	planet Yavin.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- CONTROL ROOM.

	Grand Moff Tarkin and Lord Vader are interrupted in their

	discussion by the buzz of the comlink. Tarkin moves to answer

	the call.

TARKIN: Yes.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE: We are approaching the planet Yavin. The

Rebel base is on a moon on the far side. We are preparing to orbit the

planet.

EXTERIOR: YAVIN -- JUNGLE.

	A lone guard stands in a tower high above the Yavin landscape,

	surveying the countryside. A mist hangs over the jungle of

	twisted green.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI -- WAR ROOM BRIEFING AREA.

	Dodonna stands before a large electronic wall display. Leia

	and several other senators are to one side of the giant

	readout. The low-ceilinged room is filled with starpilots,

	navigators, and a sprinkling of R2-type robots. Everyone is

	listening intently to what Dodonna is saying. Han and

	Chewbacca are standing near the back.

DODONNA: The battle station is heavily shielded and carries a

firepower greater than half the star fleet. It's defenses are designed

around a direct large-scale assault. A small one-man fighter should be

able to penetrate the outer defense.

		 Gold Leader, a rough looking man in his early thirties,

	stands and addresses Dodonna.

GOLD LEADER: Pardon me for asking, sir, but what good are snub

fighters going to be against that?

DODONNA: Well, the Empire doesn't consider a small one-man fighter to

be any threat, or they'd have a tighter defense. An analysis of the

plans provided by Princess Leia has demonstrated a weakness in the

battle station.

		 Artoo-Detoo stands next to a similar robot, makes beeping

	sounds, and turns his head from right to left.

DODONNA: The approach will not be easy. You are required to maneuver

straight down this trench and skim the surface to this point. The

target area is only two meters wide. It's a small thermal exhaust

port, right below the main port. The shaft leads directly to the

reactor system. A precise hit will start a chain reaction which should

destroy the station.

		 A murmer of disbelief runs through the room.

DODONNA: Only a precise hit will set up a chain reaction. The shaft is

ray-shielded, so you'll have to use proton torpedoes.

		 Luke is sitting next to Wedge Antilles, a hotshot pilot

	about sixteen years old.

WEDGE: That's impossible, even for a computer.

LUKE: It's not impossible. I used to bull's-eye womp rats in my

T-sixteen back home. They're not much bigger than two meters.

DODONNA: Man your ships! And may the Force be with you!

		 The group rises and begins to leave.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	The Death Star begins to move around the planet toward the

	tiny green moon.


INTERIOR: DEATH STAR.

	Tarkin and Vader watch the computer projected screen with

	interest, as a circle of lights intertwines around one another

	on the screen showing it's position in relation to Yavin and

	the forth moon.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE: Orbiting the planet at maximum velocity.

The moon with the Rebel base will be in range in thirty minutes.

VADER: This will be a day long remembered. It has seen the end of

Kenobi and it will soon see the end of the Rebellion.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- MAIN HANGAR DECK.

	Luke, Threepio and little Artoo enter the huge spaceship

	hangar and hurry along a long line of gleaming spacefighters.

	Flight crews rush around loading last-minute armaments and

	unlocking power couplings. In an area isolated from this

	activity Luke finds Han and Chewbacca loading small boxes onto

	an armored speeder.

MAN'S VOICE: (over loudspeaker) All flight trooper, man your stations.

All flight troops, man your stations.

		 Han is deliberately ignoring the activity of the fighter

	pilots' preparation. Luke is quite saddened at the sight of

	his friend's departure.

LUKE: So...you got your reward and you're just leaving then?

HAN: That's right, yeah! I got some old debts I've got to pay off with

this stuff. Even if I didn't, you don't think I'd be fool enough to

stick around here, do you? Why don't you come with us? You're pretty

good in a fight. I could use you.

LUKE: (getting angry) Come on! Why don't you take a look around? You

know what's about to happen, what they're up against. They could use a

good pilot like you. You're turning your back on them.

HAN: What good's a reward if you ain't around to use it? Besides,

attacking that battle station ain't my idea of courage. It's more like

suicide.

LUKE: All right. Well, take care of yourself, Han. I guess that's

what you're best at, isn't it?

		 Luke goes off and Han hesitates, then calls to him.

HAN: Hey, Luke...may the Force be with you!

		 Luke turns and sees Han wink at him. Luke lifts his hand in

	a small wave and then goes off. 

		 Han turns to Chewie who growls at his captain,

HAN: What're you lookin' at? I know what I'm doing.

INTERIOR: MAIN HANGAR DECK -- LUKE'S SHIP.

	Luke, Leia, and Dodonna meet under a huge space fighter.

LEIA: What's wrong?

LUKE: Oh, it's Han! I don't know, I really thought he'd change his

mind. 

LEIA: He's got to follow his own path. No one can choose it for him.

LUKE: I only wish Ben were here.

		 Leia gives Luke a little kiss, turns, and goes off. As Luke

	heads for his ship, another pilot rushes up to him and grabs

	his arm.

BIGGS: Luke! I don't believe it! How'd you get here...are you going

out with us?!

LUKE: Biggs! Of course, I'll be up there with you! Listen, have I got

some stories to tell...

		 Red Leader, a rugged handsome man in his forties, comes up

	behind Luke and Biggs. He has the confident smile of a born

	leader.

RED LEADER: Are you...Luke Skywalker? Have you been checked out on the

Incom T-sixty-five?

BIGGS: Sir, Luke is the best bushpilot in the outer rim territories.

		 Red Leader pats Luke on the back as they stop in front of

	his fighter.

RED LEADER: I met your father once when I was just a boy, he was a

great pilot. You'll do all right. If you've got half of your father's

skill, you'll do better than all right.

LUKE: Thank you, sir. I'll try.

		 Red Leader hurries to his own ship.


BIGGS: I've got to get aboard. Listen, you'll tell me your stories

when we come back. All right?

LUKE: I told you I'd make it someday, Biggs.

BIGGS: (going off) You did, all right. It's going to be like old

times, Luke. We're a couple of shooting stars that'll never be

stopped!

		 Luke laughs and shakes his head in agreement. He heads for

	his ship.

		 As Luke begins to climb up the ladder into his sleek,

	deadly spaceship, the crew chief, who is working on the craft,

	points to little Artoo, who is being hoisted into a socket on

	the back of the fighter.

CHIEF: This R2 unit of your seems a bit beat up. Do you want a new

one?

LUKE: Not on your life! That little droid and I have been through a

lot together. (to Artoo) You okay, Artoo?

		 The crewmen lower Artoo-Detoo into the craft. Now a part of

	the exterior shell of the starship, the little droid beeps

	that he is fine.

		 Luke climbs up into the cockpit of his fighter and puts an

	his helmet. Threepio looks on from the floor of the massive

	hangar as the crewmen secure his little electronic partner

	into Luke's X-wing. It's an emotional-filled moment as Artoo

	beeps good-bye.

CHIEF: Okay, easy she goes!

THREEPIO: Hang on tight,Artoo, you've got to come back.

		 Artoo beeps in agreement.

THREEPIO: You wouldn't want my life to get boring, would you?

		 Artoo whistles his reply.

		 All final preparations are made for the approaching battle.

	The hangar is buzzing with the last minute activity as the

	pilots and crewmen alike make their final adjustments. The hum

	of activity is occasionally trespassed by the distorted voice

	of the loudspeaker issuing commands. Coupling hoses are


	disconnected from the ships as they are fueled. Cockpit

	shields roll smoothly into place over each pilot. A signalman,

	holding red guiding lights, directs the ships. Luke, a trace

	of a smile gracing his lips, peers about through his goggles.

BEN'S VOICE: Luke, the Force will be with you.

		 Luke is confused at the voice and taps his headphones.

EXTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- JUNGLE.

	All that can be seen of the fortress is a lone guard standing

	on a small pedestal jutting out above the dense jungle. The

	muted gruesome crying sounds that naturally permeate this

	eerie purgatory are overwhelmed by the thundering din of ion

	rockets as four silver starships catapult from the foliage in

	a tight formation and disappears into the morning cloud cover.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	The princess, Threepio, and a field commander sit quietly

	before the giant display showing the planet Yavin and its four

	moons. The red dot that represents the Death Star moves ever

	closer to the system. A series of green dots appear around the


	fourth moon. A din of indistinct chatter fills the war room.

MASSASSI INTERCOM VOICE: Stand-by alert. Death Star approaching.

Estimated time to firing range, fifteen minutes.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	The Death Star slowly moves behind the massive yellow surface

	of Yavin in the foreground, as many X-wing fighters flying in

	formation zoom toward us and out of the frame.

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- ANOTHER ANGLE.

	Light from a distant sun creates an eerie atmospheric glow

	around a huge planet, Yavin. Rebel fighters flying in

	formation settle ominously in the foreground and very slowly

	pull away.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER STARSHIP -- COCKPIT.

	Red Leader lowers his visor and adjusts his gun sights,

	looking to each side at his wing men.

RED LEADER: All wings report in.

INTERIOR: ANOTHER COCKPIT.

	One of the Rebel fighters checks in through his mike.

RED TEN: Red Ten standing by.

INTERIOR: BIGGS' COCKPIT.

	Biggs checks his fighter's controls, alert and ready for

	combat.

RED SEVEN: (over Biggs' headset) Red Seven standing by.

BIGGS: Red Three standing by.

INTERIOR: PORKINS' COCKPIT.

PORKINS: Red Six standing by.

RED NINE: (over headset) Red Nine standing by.

INTERIOR: WEDGE'S FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

WEDGE: Red Two standing by.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

RED ELEVEN: (over headset) Red Eleven standing by.

LUKE: Red Five standing by.

EXTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

	Artoo-Detoo, in position outside of the fighter, turns his

	head from side to side and makes beeping sounds.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

RED LEADER: Lock S-foils in attack position.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	The group of X-wing fighters move in formation toward the

	Death Star, unfolding the wings and locking them in the "X"

	position.

INTERIOR: BIGGS' COCKPIT

READ LEADER: (over headset) We're passing through their magnetic

field.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

RED LEADER: Hold tight!

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke adjusts his controls as he concentrates on the

	approaching Death Star. The ship begins to be buffeted

	slightly.

RED LEADER: (over headset) Switch your deflectors on.

INTERIOR: ANOTHER COCKPIT.

RED LEADER: (over headset) Double front!

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	The fighters, now X-shaped darts, move in formation. The Death

	Star now appears to be a small moon growing rapidly in size as

	the Rebel fighters approach. Complex patterns on the metallic

	surface begin to become visible. A large dish antenna is built

	into the surface on one side.

INTERIOR: WEDGE'S COCKPIT.

	Wedge is amazed and slightly frightened at the awesome

	spectacle.

WEDGE: Look at the size of that thing!

RED LEADER: (over headset) Cut the chatter, Red Two.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

RED LEADER: Accelerate to attack speed. This is it, boys!

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	As the fighters move closer to the Death Star, the awesome

	size of the gargantuan Imperial fortress is revealed. Half of

	the deadly space station is in shadow and this area sparkles

	with thousands of small lights running in thin lines and

	occasionally grouped in large clusters; somewhat like a city

	at night as seen from a weather satellite.

INTERIOR: GOLD LEADER'S COCKPIT.

GOLD LEADER: Red Leader, this is Gold Leader.

RED LEADER: (over headset) I copy, Gold Leader.

GOLD LEADER: We're starting for the target shaft now.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

	Red Leader looks around at his wingmen; the Death Star looming


	in from behind. Two Y-wing fighters bob back and forth in the

	background. He moves his computer targeting device into

	position.

RED LEADER: We're in position. I'm going to cut across the axis and

try and draw their fire.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	Two squads of Rebel fighters peel off. The X-wings dive

	towards the Death Star surface. A thousand lights glow across

	the dark grey expanse of the huge station.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR.

	Alarm sirens scream as soldiers scramble to large turbo-

	powered laser gun emplacements. Electronic drivers rotate the

	huge guns into position as crew adjust their targeting

	devices.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Laserbolts streak through the star-filled night. The Rebel

	X-wing fighters move in toward the Imperial base, as the Death

	Star aims its massive laser guns at the Rebel forces and

	fires.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	Princess Leia listens to the battle over the intercom.

	Threepio is at her side.

WEDGE: (over war room speaker system) Heavy fire, boss! Twenty-degrees.

RED LEADER: (over speaker) I see it. Stay low.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	An X-wing zooms across the surface of the Death Star.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR.

	Technical crews scurry here and there loading last-minute

	armaments and unlocking power cables.

INTERIOR: WEDGE'S COCKPIT.

	Wedge maneuvers his fighter toward the menacing Death Star.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	X-wings continue in their attack course on the Death Star.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke nosedives radically, starting his attack on the monstrous

	fortress. The Death Star surface streaks past the cockpit

	window.

LUKE: This is Red Five; I'm going in!

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	Luke's X-wing races toward the Death Star. Laserbolts streak

	from Luke's weapons, creating a huge fireball explosion on the

	dim surface.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Terror crosses Luke's face as he realizes he won't be able to

	pull out in time to avoid the fireball.

BIGGS: (over headset) Luke, pull up!

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF DEATH STAR.

	Luke's ship emerges from the fireball, with the leading edges

	of his wings slightly scorched.

INTERIOR: BIGGS' COCKPIT.

BIGGS: Are you all right?

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke adjusts his controls and breathes a sigh of relief. Flak

	bursts outside the cockpit window.

LUKE: I got a little cooked, but I'm okay.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Rebel fighters continue to strafe the Death Star's surface

	with laserbolts.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR.

	Walls buckle and cave in. Troops and equipment are blown in

	all directions. Stormtroopers stagger out of the rubble.

	Standing in the middle of the chaos, a vision of calm and

	foreboding, is Darth Vader. One of his Astro-Officers rushes

	up to him.

ASTRO-OFFICER: We count thirty Rebel ships, Lord Vader. But they're so

small they're evading our turbo-lasers!

VADER: We'll have to destroy them ship to ship. Get the crews to their

fighters.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR.

	Smoke belches from the giant laser guns as they wind up their

	turbine generators to create sufficient power. The crew rushes

	about preparing for another blast. Even the troopers head gear

	is not adequate to protect them from the overwhelming noise of

	the monstrous weapon. One troopers bangs his helmet with his

	hand in an attempt to stop the ringing.

INTERIOR: READ LEADER'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT -- TRAVELING.

	Red Leader flies through a heavy hail of flak.

RED LEADER: Luke, let me know when you're going in.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT -- TRAVELING.

	The Red Leader's X-wing flies past Luke as he puts his nose

	down and starts his attack dive.

LUKE: I'm on my way in now...

RED LEADER: Watch yourself! There's a lot of fire coming from the

right side of that deflection tower.

LUKE: I'm on it.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Luke flings his X-wing into a twisting dive across the horizon

	and down onto the dim grey surface.

EXTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING TRAVELING.

	A shot hurls from Luke's guns. Laserbolts streak toward the

	onrushing Death Star surface. Several small radar emplacements

	erupt in flame. Laserfire erupts from a protruding tower on

	the surface.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT -- TRAVELING.

	The blurry Death Star surface races past the cockpit window as

	a big smile sweeps across Luke's face at the success of his

	run. Flak thunders on all sides of him.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	The Death Star superstructure races past Luke as he maneuvers

	his craft through a wall of laserfire and peels away from the

	surface towards the heavens.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR.

	The thunder and smoke of the big guns reverberate throughout

	the massive structure. Many soldiers rush about in the smoke

	and chaos, silhouetted by the almost continual flash of

	explosions.

INTERIOR: BIGGS' COCKPIT -- TRAVELING.

	Biggs dives through a forest of radar domes, antennae, and gun

	towers as he shoots low across the Death Star surface. A dense

	barrage of laserfire streaks by on all sides.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR.

	Imperial star pilots dash in unison to a line of small

	auxiliary hatches that lead to Imperial TIE fighters.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	Princess Leia, surrounded by her generals and aides, paces

	nervously before a lighted computer table. On all sides

	technicians work in front of many lighted glass walls. Dodonna

	watches quietly from one corner. One of the officers working


	over a screen speaks into his headset.

CONTROL OFFICER: Squad leaders, we've picked up a new group of

signals. Enemy fighters coming your way.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT -- TRAVELING.

	Luke looks around to see if he can spot the approaching

	Imperial fighters.

LUKE: My scope's negative. I don't see anything.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S X-WING -- COCKPIT -- TRAVELING.

	The Death Star's surface sweeps past as Red Leader searches

	the sky for the Imperial fighters. Flak pounds at his ship.

RED LEADER: Keep up your visual scanning. With all this jamming,

they'll be on top of you before your scope can pick them up.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Silhouetted against the rim lights of the Death Star horizon,

	four ferocious Imperial TIE ships dive on the Rebel fighters.

	Two of the TIE fighters peel off and drop out of frame. Pan

	with the remaining two TIE ships.

INTERIOR: BIGGS' COCKPIT -- TRAVELING.

	Biggs panics when he discovers a TIE ship on his tail. The

	horizon in the background twists around as he peels off,

	hoping to lose the Imperial fighter.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

RED LEADER: Biggs! You've picked one up...watch it!

BIGGS: I can't see it! Where is he?!

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Biggs zooms off the surface and into space, closely followed

	by an Imperial TIE fighter. The TIE ship fires several

	laserbolts at Biggs, but misses.

INTERIOR: BIGGS' COCKPIT -- TRAVELING.

	Biggs see the TIE ship behind him and swings around, trying to

	avoid him.

BIGGS: He's on me tight, I can't shake him...I can't shake him.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Biggs, flying at high altitude, peels off and dives toward the

	Death Star surface, but he is unable to lose the TIE fighter,

	who sticks close to his tail.

INTERIOR: X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT -- TRAVELING.

	Luke is flying upside down. He rotates his ship around to

	normal attitude as he comes out of his dive.

LUKE: Hang on, Biggs, I'm coming in.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Biggs and the tailing TIE ship dive for the surface, now

	followed by a fast-gaining Luke. After Biggs dives out of

	sight, Luke chases the Imperial fighter.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	In the foreground, the Imperial fighter races across the Death

	Star's surface, closely followed by Luke in the background.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT -- TRAVELING.

	There is a shot from Luke's X-wing of the TIE ship exploding

	in a mass of flames.

LUKE: Got him!

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR.

	Darth Vader strides purposefully down a Death Star corridor,

	flanked by Imperial stormtroopers.

VADER: Several fighters have broken off from the main group. Come with

me!

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	A concerned Princess Leia, Threepio, Dodonna, and other

	officers of the Rebellion stand around the huge round readout

	screen, listening to the ship-to-ship communication on the

	room's loudspeaker.

BIGGS: (over speaker) Pull in! Luke...pull in!

WEDGE: (over speaker) Watch your back, Luke!

INTERIOR LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

WEDGE: (over headset) Watch your back! Fighter's above you, coming in!

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	Luke's ship soars away from the Death Star's surface as he

	spots the tailing TIE fighter.

INTERIOR: TIE FIGHTER'S COCKPIT.

	The TIE pilot takes aim at Luke's X-wing.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	The Imperial TIE fighter pilot scores a hit on Luke's ship.

	Fire breaks out on the right side of the X-wing.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke looks out of his cockpit at the flames on his ship.

LUKE: I'm hit, but not bad.

EXTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER.

	Smoke pours out from behind Artoo-Detoo.

LUKE'S VOICE: Artoo, see what you can do with it. Hang on back there.

	Green laserfire moves past the beeping little robot as his

	head turns.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Luke nervously works his controls.

RED LEADER: (over headset) Red Six...

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	In the war room, Leia stands frozen as she listens and worries

	about Luke.

RED LEADER: (over speaker) Can you see Red Five?

RED TEN: (over speaker) There's a heavy fire zone on this side. Red

Five, where are you?

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Luke spots the TIE fighter behind him and soars away from the

	Death Star surface.

LUKE: I can't shake him!

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Luke's ship soars closer to the surface of the Death Star, an

	Imperial TIE fighter closing in on him in hot pursuit.

INTERIOR: WEDGE'S COCKPIT.

	The Death Star whips below Wedge.

WEDGE: I'm on him, Luke!

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT.

WEDGE: (over headset) Hold on!

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Wedge dives across the horizon toward Luke and the TIE

	fighter.

INTERIOR: WEDGE'S COCKPIT.

	Wedge moves his X-wing in rapidly.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Luke reacts frantically.

LUKE: Blast it! Wedge where are you?

INTERIOR: TIE FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	The fighter pilot watches Wedge's X-wing approach. Another

	X-wing joins him, and both unleash a volley of laserfire on

	the Imperial fighter.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	The TIE fighter explodes, filling the screen with white light.

	Luke's ship can be seen far in the distance.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Luke looks about in relief.

LUKE: Thanks, Wedge.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	Leia, Threepio, Dodonna and other Rebel officers are listening

	to the Rebel Fighter's radio transmissions over the war room

	intercom.

BIGGS: (over speaker) Good shooting, Wedge!

GOLD LEADER: (over speaker) Red Leader...

INTERIOR: GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Gold Leader peels off and starts toward the long trenches at

	the Death Star surface pole.

GOLD LEADER: This is Gold Leader. We're starting out attack run.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Three Y-wing fighters of the Gold group dive out of the stars

	toward the Death Star surface.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	Leia and the others are grouped around the screen, as

	technicians move about attending to their duties.

RED LEADER: (over speaker) I copy, Gold Leader. Move into position.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Three Imperial TIE ships in precise formation dive toward the

	Death Star surface.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Darth Vader calmly adjusts his control stick as the stars whip

	past in the window above his head.

VADER: Stay in attack formation!

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	Technicians are seated at the computer readout table.

GOLD LEADER: (over speaker) The exhaust post is...

INTERIOR: GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT.

GOLD LEADER: ...marked and locked in!

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Gold Leader approaches the surface and pulls out to skim the

	surface of the huge station. The ship moves into a deep

	trench, firing laserbolts. The surface streaks past as

	laserfire is returned by the Death Star.

INTERIOR: GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT -- TRAVELING.

	Gold Five is a pilot in his early fifties with a very battered

	helmet that looks like it's been through many battles. He

	looks around to see if enemy ships are near. His fighter is

	buffeted by Imperial flak.

INTERIOR: GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Gold Leader races down the enormous trench that leads to the

	exhaust port. Laserbolts blast toward him in increasing

	numbers, occasionally exploding near the ship causing it to

	bounce about.

GOLD LEADER: Switch power to front deflector screens.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Three Y-wing skim the Death Star surface deep in the trench,

	as laserbolts streak past on all sides.

EXTERIOR: DEATH STAR SURFACE -- GUN EMPLACEMENTS.

	An exterior surface gun blazes away at the oncoming Rebel

	fighters.

INTERIOR: GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT.

GOLD LEADER: How many guns do you think, Gold Five.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

GOLD FIVE: (over speaker) I'd say about twenty guns. Some on the

surface, some on the towers.

		 Leia, Threepio, and the technicians view the projected

	target screen, as red and blue target lights glow. The red

	target near the center blinks on and off.

MASSASSI INTERCOM VOICE: (over speaker) Death Star will be in range in

five minutes. 

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

		 The three Y-wing fighters race toward camera and zoom

	overhead through a hail of laserfire.

INTERIOR: GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT.

		 Gold Leader pulls his computer targeting device down in

	front of his eye. Laserbolts continue to batter the Rebel

	craft.

GOLD LEADER: Switching to targeting computer.

INTERIOR: GOLD TWO'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT.

		 Gold Two, a younger pilot about Luke's age, pulls down his

	targeting eye viewer and adjusts it. His ship shudders under

	intense laser barrage.

GOLD TWO: Computer's locked. Getting a signal.

		 As the fighters begin to approach the target area, suddenly

	all the laserfire stops. An eerie clam clings over the trench

	as the surface whips past in a blur.

GOLD TWO: The guns...they've stopped!

EXTERIOR: GOLD FIVE'S COCKPIT.

	Gold Five looks behind him.

GOLD FIVE: Stabilize your read deflectors. Watch for enemy fighters.

INTERIOR: GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT.

GOLD LEADER: They've coming in! Three marks at two ten.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Three Imperial TIE ships, Darth Vader in the center flanked by

	two wingmen, dive in precise formation almost vertically

	toward the Death Star surface.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Darth Vader calmly adjusts his control stick as the stars zoom

	by.

VADER: I'll take them myself! Cover me!

WINGMAN'S VOICE: (over speaker) Yes, sir.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Three TIE fighters zoom across the surface of the Death Star.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader lines up Gold Two in his targeting computer. Vader's

	hands grip the control stick as he presses the button.

INTERIOR: GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT

	The cockpit explodes around Gold Two. His head falls forward.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	As Gold Two's ship explodes, debris is flung out into space.

INTERIOR: GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Gold Leader looks over his shoulder at the scene.

EXTERIOR: DEATH STAR TRENCH.

	The three TIE fighters race along in the trench in a tight

	formation.

INTERIOR: GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Gold Leader panics.

GOLD LEADER: (into mike) I can't maneuver!

INTERIOR: GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Gold Five, the old veteran, trys to calm Gold Leader.

GOLD FIVE: Stay on target.

INTERIOR: GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT.

	The Death Star races by outside the cockpit window as he

	adjusts his targeting device.

GOLD LEADER: We're too close.

INTERIOR: GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT.

	The older pilot remains calm.

GOLD FIVE: Stay on target!

INTERIOR: GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Now he's really panicked.

GOLD LEADER: Loosen up!

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader calmly adjusts his targeting computer and pushes the

	fire button.

INTERIOR: GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Gold Leader's ship is hit by Vader's laser.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Gold Leader explodes in a ball of flames, throwing debris in

	all directions.

INTERIOR: GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Gold Five moves in on the exhaust port.

GOLD FIVE: Gold Five to Red Leader...

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke looks over his shoulder at the action outside of his

	cockpit.

GOLD FIVE: (over headset) Lost Tiree, lost Dutch.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

RED LEADER: I copy, Gold Five.

INTERIOR: GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING -- COCKPIT.

GOLD FIVE: They came from behind....

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	One of the engines explodes on Gold Five's Y-wing fighter,

	blazing out of control. He dives past the horizon toward the

	Death Star's surface, passing a TIE fighter during his

	descent. Gold Five, a veteran of countless campaigns, spins

	toward his death.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke looks nervously about him at the explosive battle.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- CONTROL ROOM.

	Grant Moff Tarkin and a Chief Officer stand in the Death

	Star's control room.

OFFICER: We've analyzed their attack, sir, and there is a danger.

Should I have your ship standing by?

TARKIN: Evacuate? In out moment of triumph? I think you overestimate

their chances!

		 Tarkin turns to the computer readout screen. Flames move

	around the green disk at the center of the screen, as numbers

	read across the bottom.

VOICE: (over speaker) Rebel base, three minutes and closing.

INTERIOR: READ LEADER'S COCKPIT.

	Red Leader looks over at his wingmen.

RED LEADER: Red Group, this is Red Leader.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	Dodonna moves to the intercom as he fiddles with the computer

	keys.

RED LEADER: (over speaker) Rendezvous at mark six point one.

WEDGE: (over speaker) This is Red Two. Flying toward you.

BIGGS: (over speaker) Red Three, standing by.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT:

DODONNA: (over headset) Red Leader, this is Base One. Keep half your

group out of range for the next run.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

RED LEADER'S VOICE: (over headset) Copy, Base One. Luke, take Red Two

and Three. Hold up here and wait for my signal...to start your run.

		 Luke nods his head.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	The X-wing fighters of Luke, Biggs, and Wedge fly in formation

	high above the Death Star's surface.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke peers out from his cockpit.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Two X-wings move across the surface of the Death Star. Red

	Leader's X-wing drops down to the surface leading to the

	exhaust port.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

	Red Leader looks around to watch for the TIE fighters. He

	begins to perspire.

RED LEADER: This is it!

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	Red Leader roams down the trench of the Death Star as lasers

	streak across the black heavens.

EXTERIOR: DEATH STAR SURFACE -- GUN EMPLACEMENTS.

	A huge remote-control laser cannon fires at the approaching

	Rebel fighters.

EXTERIOR: DEATH STAR TRENCH.

	The Rebel fighters evade the Imperial laser blasts.

INTERIOR: RED TEN'S COCKPIT.

	Red Ten looks around for the Imperial fighters.


RED TEN: We should be able to see it by now.

EXTERIOR: DEATH STAR TRENCH.

	From the cockpits of the Rebel pilots, the surface of the

	Death Star streaks by, with Imperial laserfire shooting toward

	them.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

RED LEADER: Keep your eyes open for those fighters!

INTERIOR: RED TEN'S COCKPIT.

RED TEN: There's too much interference!

EXTERIOR: SPACE -- DEATH STAR TRENCH.



	Three X-wing fighters move in formation down the Death Star

	trench.

RED TEN'S VOICE: Red Five, can you see them from where you are?

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke looks down at the Death Star surface below.

LUKE: No sign of any...wait!

INTERIOR: RED TEN'S COCKPIT.

	Red Ten looks up and sees the Imperial fighters.

LUKE: (over headset) Coming in point three five.

RED TEN: I see them.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Three TIE fighters, Vader flanked by two wingmen, dive in a

	tight formation. The sun reflects off their dominate solar

	fins as they loop toward the Death Star's surface.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

	Red Leader pulls his targeting device in front of his eyes and

	makes several adjustments.

RED LEADER: I'm in range.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Red Leader's X-wing moves up the Death Star trench.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

RED LEADER: Target's coming up!

		 Red Leader looks at his computer target readout screen. He

	then looks into his targeting device.

RED LEADER: Just hold them off for a few seconds.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader adjusts his control lever and dives on the X-wing

	fighters.

VADER: Close up formation.

EXTERIOR: DEATH STAR TRENCH.

	The three TIE fighters move in formation across the Death Star

	surface.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

		 Red Leader lines up his target on the targeting device

	cross hairs.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Vader and his wingmen zoom down the trench.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader rapidly approaches the two X-wings of Red Ten and Red

	Twelve. Vader's laser cannon flashes below the view of the

	front porthole. the X-wings show in the center of Vader's

	computer screen.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	Red Twelve's X-wing fighter is hit by Vader's laserfire, and

	it explodes into flames against the trench.

INTERIOR: RED TEN'S COCKPIT.

	Red Ten works at his controls furiously, trying to avoid

	Vader's fighter behind him.

RED TEN: You'd better let her loose.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

	Red Leader is concentrating on his targeting device.

RED LEADER: Almost there!

INTERIOR: RED TEN'S COCKPIT.

	Red Ten panics.

RED TEN: I can't hold them!

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Vader and his wingmen whip through the trench in pursuit of

	the Rebel fighters.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader cooly pushes the fire button on his control stick.

INTERIOR: RED TEN'S COCKPIT.

	Darth Vader's well-aimed laserfire proves to be unavoidable,

	and strikes Red Ten's ship. Red Ten screams in anguish and

	pain.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.  

	Red Ten's ship explodes and bursts into flames.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

	Grimly, Red Leader takes careful aim and watches his computer

	targeting device, which shows the target lined up in the cross

	hairs, and fires.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

RED LEADER: It's away!

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR.   

	An armed Imperial stormtrooper is knocked to the floor from

	the attack explosion. Other troopers scurrying about the

	corridors are knocked against the wall and lose their balance.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	Leia and the others stare at the computer screen.

RED NINE'S VOICE: (over speaker) It's a hit!

RED LEADER: (over speaker) Negative.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

	Red Leader looks back at the receding Death Star. Tiny

	explosions are visible in the distance.

RED LEADER: Negative! It didn't go in. It just impacted on the

surface.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR -- TIE FIGHTER.

	Darth Vader peels off in pursuit as Red Leader's X-wing passes

	the Death Star horizon.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader swings his ship around for the next kill.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

LUKE: (over headset) Red Leader, we're right above you. Turn to

point...

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke tries to spot Red Leader. He looks down at the Death Star

	surface.

LUKE: ...oh-five; we'll cover for you.

RED LEADER: (over headset) Stay there...

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

	A wary Red Leader looks about nervously.

RED LEADER: ...I just lost my starboard engine.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke looks excitedly toward Red Leader's X-wing.

RED LEADER: (over headset) Get set to make your attack run.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader's gloved hands make contact with the control sticks, and

	he presses their firing buttons.

INTERIOR: RED LEADER'S COCKPIT.

	Red Leader fights to gain control of his ship.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Laserbolts are flung from Vader's TIE fighter, connecting with

	Red Leader's Rebel X-wing fighter. Red Leader buys it,

	creating a tremendous explosion far below. He screams and is

	destroyed.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke looks out the window of his X-wing at the explosion far

	below. For the first time, he feels the helplessness of his


	situation.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR.

	Grand Moff Tarkin casts a sinister eye at the computer screen.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE: Rebel base, one minute and closing.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	Dodonna and Princess Leia, with Threepio beside them, listen

	intently to the talk between the pilots. The room is grim

	after Red Leader's death. Princess Leia nervously paces the

	room.

LUKE: (over speaker) Biggs, Wedge, let's close it up. We're going in.

We're going in full throttle.

INTERIOR: WEDGE'S COCKPIT.

	The horizon twists as Wedge begins to pull out.

WEDGE: Right with you, boss.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.  

	The two X-wings peel off against a background of stars and

	dive toward the Death Star.

INTERIOR: BIGGS' COCKPIT.

BIGGS: Luke, at that speed will you be able to pull out in time?

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

LUKE: It'll be just like Beggar's Canyon back home.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	The three X-wings move in, unleashing a barrage of laserfire.

	Laserbolts are returned from the Death Star.

INTERIOR: BIGGS' COCKPIT.

	Luke's lifelong friend struggles with his controls.

BIGGS: We'll stay back far enough to cover you.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S COCKPIT.

	Flak and laserbolts flash outside Luke's cockpit window.

WEDGE: (over headset) My scope shows the tower, but I can't see the

exhaust port! Are you sure the computer can hit it?

EXTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- GUN EMPLACEMENTS.

	The Death Star laser cannon slowly rotates as it shoots

	laserbolts.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke looks around for the Imperial TIE fighters. He thinks for

	a moment and then moves his targeting device into position.

LUKE: Watch yourself! Increase speed full throttle!

INTERIOR: WEDGE'S COCKPIT.

	Wedge looks excitedly about for any sign of the TIE fighters.

WEDGE: What about the tower?

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

LUKE: You worry about those fighters! I'll worry about the tower!

EXTERIOR: DEATH STAR SURFACE.

	Luke's X-wing streaks through the trench, firing lasers.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke breaks into a nervous sweat as the laserfire is returned,

	knicking one of his wings close to the engine.

LUKE: (to Artoo) Artoo...that, that stabilizer's broken loose again!

See if you can't lock it down!

EXTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER.

	Artoo works to repair the damages. The canyon wall rushes by

	in the background, making his delicate task seem even more

	precarious.

EXTERIOR: DEATH STAR.

	Two laser cannons are firing on the Rebel fighters.

INTERIOR: WEDGE'S COCKPIT.

	Wedge looks up and sees the TIE ships.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke's targeting device marks off the distance to the target.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Vader and his wingmen zoom closer.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader adjusts his controls and fires laserbolts at two X-wings

	flying down the trench. He scores a direct hit on Wedge.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	Leia and the others are grouped around the computer board.

WEDGE: (over speaker) I'm hit! I can't stay with you.

LUKE: (over speaker) Get clear, Wedge.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

LUKE: You can't do any more good back there!

INTERIOR: WEDGE'S COCKPIT.

WEDGE: Sorry!

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Wedge pulls his crippled X-wing back away from the battle.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader watches the escape but issues a command to his wingmen.

VADER: Let him go! Stay on the leader!

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Luke's X-wing speeds down the trench; the three TIE fighters,

	still in perfect unbroken formation, tail close behind.

INTERIOR: BIGGS' COCKPIT.

	Biggs looks around at the TIE fighters. He is worried.

BIGGS: Hurry, Luke, they're coming in much faster this time. I can't

hold them!

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	The three TIE fighters move ever closer, closing in on Luke

	and Biggs.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke looks back anxiously at little Artoo.

LUKE: Artoo, try and increase the power!

EXTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER.

	Ignoring the bumpy ride, flak, and lasers, a beeping

	Artoo-Detoo struggles to increase the power, his dome turning

	from side to side.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Stealthily, the TIE formation creeps closer.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader adjusts his control stick.

INTERIOR: BIGGS' COCKPIT.

	Biggs looks around at the TIE fighters.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER.

	Luke looks into his targeting device. He moves it away for a

	moment and ponders its use. He looks back into the computer

	targeter.

BIGGS: (over headset) Hurry up, Luke!

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Vader and his wingmen race through the Death Star trench.

	Biggs moves in to cover for Luke, but Vader gains on him.

INTERIOR: BIGGS' COCKPIT.

	Biggs sees the TIE fighter aiming at him.

BIGGS: Wait!

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader squeezes the fire button on his controls.

INTERIOR: BIGGS' COCKPIT.

	Biggs' cockpit explodes around him, lighting him in red.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Biggs' ship bursts into a million flaming bits and scatters

	across the surface.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	Leia and the others stare at the computer board.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING COCKPIT.

	Luke is stunned by Biggs' death. His eyes are watering, but

	his anger is also growing.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- CONTROL ROOM.

	Grand Moff Tarkin watches the projected target screen with

	satisfaction.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE: Rebel base, thirty seconds and closing.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader takes aim on Luke and talks to the wingmen.

VADER: I'm on the leader.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR -- LUKE'S SHIP.

	Luke's ship streaks through the trench of the Death Star.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	Princess Leia returns her general's worried and doubtful

	glances with solid, grim determination. Threepio seems nervous.

THREEPIO: Hang on, Artoo!

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Luke concentrates on his targeting device.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Three TIE fighters charge away down the trench toward Luke.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader's finger's curls around the control stick.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Luke adjusts the lens of his targeting device.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Luke's ship charges down the trench.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Luke lines up the yellow cross-hair lines of the targeting

	device's screen. He looks into the targeting device, then

	starts at a voice he hears.

BEN'S VOICE: Use the Force, Luke.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	The Death Star trench zooms by.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Luke looks up, then starts to look back into the targeting

	device. He has second thoughts.

BEN'S VOICE: Let go, Luke.

		 A grim determination sweeps across Luke's face as he closes

	his eyes and starts to mumble Ben's training to himself.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Luke's fighter streaks through the trench.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

VADER: The Force is strong with this one!

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Vader follows Luke's X-wing down the trench.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Luke looks to the targeting device, then away as he hears

	Ben's voice.

BEN'S VOICE: Luke, trust me.

		 Luke's hand reaches for the control panel and presses the

	button. The targeting device moves away.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	Leia and the others stand watching the projected screen.

BASE VOICE: (over speaker) His computer's off. Luke, you switched off

your targeting computer. What's wrong?

LUKE: (over speaker) Nothing. I'm all right.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Luke's ship streaks ever close to the exhaust port.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING -- COCKPIT.

	Luke looks at the Death Star surface streaking by.

EXTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER.

	Artoo-Detoo turns his head from side to side, beeping in

	anticipation.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	The three TIE fighters, manned by Vader and his two wingmen,

	follow Luke's X-wing down the trench.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader maneuvers his controls as he looks at his doomed target.

	He presses the fire buttons on his control sticks. Laserfire

	shoots toward Luke's X-wing fighter.

EXTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER.

	A large burst of Vader's laserfire engulfs Artoo. The arms go

	limp on the smoking little droid as he makes a high-pitched

	sound.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke looks frantically back over his shoulder at Artoo.

EXTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER.

	Smoke billows out around little Artoo and sparks begin to fly.

LUKE: I've lost Artoo!

		 Artoo's beeping sounds die out.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	Leia and the others stare intently at the projected screen,

	while Threepio watches the Princess. Lights representing the

	Death Star and targets glow brightly.

MASSASSI INTERCOM VOICE: The Death Star has cleared the planet. The

Death Star has cleared the planet.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR -- CONTROL ROOM.

	Tarkin glares at the projected target screen.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE: Rebel base, in range.

TARKIN: You may fire when ready.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE: Commence primary ignition.

		 An officer reaches up and pushes buttons on the control

	panel, as green lighted buttons turn to red.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	The three TIE fighters zoom down the Death Star trench in

	pursuit of Luke, never breaking formation.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S COCKPIT.

	Luke looks anxiously at the exhaust port.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader adjusts his control sticks, checking his projected

	targeting screen.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Luke's ship barrels down the trench.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader's targeting computer swings around into position. Vader

	takes careful aim on Luke's X-wing fighter.

VADER: I have you now.

		 He pushes the fire buttons.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.


	The three TIE fighters move in on Luke. As Vader's center

	fighter unleashes a volley of laserfire, one of the TIE ships

	at his side is hit and explodes into flame. The two remaining

	ships continue to move in.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke looks about, wondering whose laserfire destroyed Vader's

	wingman.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader is taken by surprise, and looks out from his cockpit.

VADER: What?

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S WINGMAN -- COCKPIT.

	Vader's wingman searches around him trying to locate the

	unknown attacker.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT.

	Han and Chewbacca grin from ear to ear.

HAN: (yelling) Yahoo!

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	The Millennium Falcon heads right at the two TIE fighters.

	It's a collision course.

INTERIOR: WINGMAN'S COCKPIT.

	The wingman spots the pirateship coming at him and warns the

	Dark Lord.

WINGMAN: Look out!

EXTERIOR: DEATH STAR TRENCH.

	Vader's wingman panics at the sight of the oncoming pirate

	starship and veers radically to one side, colliding with

	Vader's TIE fighter in the process. Vader's wingman crashes

	into the side wall of the trench and explodes. Vader's damaged

	ship spins out of the trench with a damaged wing.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Vader's ship spins out of control with a bent solar fin,

	heading for deep space.

INTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT.

	Vader turns round and round in circles as his ship spins

	into space.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Solo's ship moves in toward the Death Star trench.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT.

	Solo, smiling, speaks to Luke over his headset mike.

HAN: (into mike) You're all clear, kid.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- WAR ROOM.

	Leia and the others listen to Solo's transmission.

HAN: (over speaker) Now let's blow this thing and go home!

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke looks up and smiles. He concentrates on the exhaust port,

	then fires his laser torpedoes.

EXTERIOR: SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR.

	Luke's torpedoes shoot toward the port and seems to simply

	disappear into the surface and not explode. But the shots do

	find their mark and have gone into the exhaust port and are

	heading for the main reactor.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke throws his head back in relief.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR.

	An Imperial soldier runs to the control panel board and pulls

	the attack lever as the board behind him lights up.

INTERCOM VOICE: Stand by to fire at Rebel base.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	Two X-wings, a Y-wing, and the pirateship race toward Yavin in

	the distance.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR.

	Several Imperial soldiers, flanking a pensive Grand Moff

	Tarkin, busily push control levers and buttons.


INTERCOM VOICE: Standing by.

		 The rumble of a distant explosion begins.

EXTERIOR: SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR.

	The Rebel ships race out of sight, leaving the moon-like Death

	Star alone against a blanket of stars. Several small flashes

	appear on the surface. The Death Star bursts into a supernova,

	creating a spectacular heavenly display.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON -- COCKPIT.

HAN: Great shot, kid. That was one in a million.

INTERIOR: LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER -- COCKPIT.

	Luke is at ease, and his eyes are closed.

BEN'S VOICE: Remember, the Force will be with you...always.

		 The ship rocks back and forth.

EXTERIOR: DARTH VADER'S TIE FIGHTER.

	Vader's ship spins off into space.

EXTERIOR: SPACE.

	The Rebel ships race toward the fourth moon of Yavin.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- MAIN HANGAR.

	Luke climbs out of his starship fighter and is cheered by a

	throng of ground crew and pilots. Luke climbs down the ladder

	as they all welcome him with laughter, cheers, and shouting.

		 Princess Leia rushes toward him.

LEIA: Luke! Luke! Luke!

		 She throws her arms around Luke and hugs him as they dance

	around in a circle. Solo runs in toward Luke and they embrace

	one another, slapping each other on the back.

HAN: (laughing) Hey! Hey!

LUKE: (laughing) I knew you'd come back! I just knew it!

HAN: Well, I wasn't gonna let you get all the credit and take all the

reward.

		 Luke and Han look at one another, as Solo playfully shoves

	at Luke's face. Leia moves in between them.

LEIA: (laughing) Hey, I knew there was more to you than money.

		 Luke looks toward the ship.

LUKE: Oh, no!

	The fried little Artoo-Detoo is lifted off the back of the

	fighter and carried off under the worried eyes of Threepio.

THREEPIO: Oh, my! Artoo! Can you hear me? Say something! (to mechanic)

You can repair him, can't you?

TECHNICIAN: We'll get to work on him right away.

THREEPIO: You must repair him! Sir, if any of my circuits or gears

will help, I'll gladly donate them.

LUKE: He'll be all right.

INTERIOR: MASSASSI OUTPOST -- MAIN THRONE ROOM.

	Luke, Han, and Chewbacca enter the huge ruins of the main
	temple. Hundreds of troops are lined up in neat rows. Banners
	are flying and at the far end stands a vision in white, the
	beautiful young Senator Leia. Luke and the others solemnly
	march up the long aisle and kneel before Senator Leia. From
	one side of the temple marches a shined-up and fully repaired

	Artoo-Detoo. He waddles up to the group and stands next to an
	equally pristine Threepio, who is rather awestruck by the
	whole event. Chewbacca is confused. Dodonna and several other
	dignitaries sit on the left of the Princess Leia. Leia is
	dressed in a long white dress and is staggeringly beautiful.

	She rises and places a gold medallion around Han's neck. He
	winks at her. She then repeats the ceremony with Luke, who is
	moved by the event. They turn and face the assembled troops,
	who all bow before them. Chewbacca growls and Artoo beeps with
	happiness.

							 FADE OUT

					 END CREDITS OVER STARS

							 THE END

					-----------------------

							 CREDITS

					Written and Directed by

						 GEORGE LUCAS

						 Produced by

							GARY KURTZ

							 STARRING

			MARK HAMILL   HARRISON FORD   CARRIE FISHER

						PETER CUSHING

						 and ALEC GUINNESS

							with

			ANTHONY DANIELS, KENNY BAKER, PETER MAYHEW,

				 DAVID PROWSE, JACK PURVIS, EDDIE BYRNE

						


						Production Designer

							JOHN BARRY

					Director of Photography

					 GILBERT TAYLOR, B.S.C.

							 Music by

						JOHN WILLIAMS

		 Performed by The London Symphony Orchestra; Original Music

			 Copyright 1977 by Fox Fanfare Music, Inc.

				Special Photographic Effects Supervisor

						 JOHN DYKSTRA

		 Special Production and Mechanical Effects Supervisor

						 JOHN STEARS

						Film Editiors

				PAUL HIRSCH, MARCIA LUCAS, RICHARD CHEW

					 Production Supervisor

						 ROBERT WATTS

					Production Illustration

						  RALPH McQUARRIE

						  Costume Designer

							JOHN MOLLO

						Art Directors

					NORMAN REYNOLDS, LESLIE DILLEY

						 Make up Supervisor

						  STUART FREEBORN

					 Production Sound Mixer

							DEREK BALL

							 Casting

				IRENE LAMB, DIANE CRITTENDEN, VIC RAMOS

					Supervising Sound Editor

							 SAM SHAW

				Special Dialogue and Sound Effects

							BEN BURTT

						Sound Editors

				  ROBERT R. RUTLEDGE, GORDON DAVIDSON,

							GENE CORSO

					Supervising Music Editor

						  KENNETH WANNBERG

						 Rerecording Mixers

				 DON MacDOUGALL, BOB MINKLER, RAY WEST,

			ROBERT LITT, MIKE MINKLER, LESTER FRESHOLTZ,

						  RICHARD PORTMAN

					 Dolby Sound Consultant

						 STEPHEN KATZ

						Orchestrations

						 HERBERT W. SPENCER

						Music Scoring Mixer

						ERIC TOMLINSON

					 Assistant Film Editors

					TODD BOEKELHEIDE, JAY MIRACLE,

					COLIN KITCHENS, BONNIE KOEHLER

						  Camera Operators

					 RONNIE TAYLOR, GEOFF GLOVER

						Set Decorator

						  ROGER CHRISTIAN

						 Production Manager

						BRUCE SHARMAN

						Assistant Directors

				 TONY WAYE, GERRY GAVIGAN, TERRY MADDEN

						  Location Manager


						 ARNOLD ROSS

					 Assistant to Producer

						 BUNNY ALSUP

					 Assistant to Director

						 LUCY AUTREY WILSON

						Production Assistant

					 PAT CARR, MIKI HERMAN

							  Gaffer

							RON TABERA

						  Property Master

						 FRANK BRUTON

						Wardrobe Supervisor

							 RON BECK

						 Stunt Coordinator

						PETER DIAMOND

							Continuity

						 ANN SKINNER

							  Titles

							DAN PERRI

					Second Unit Photography

				 CARROLL BALLARD, RICK CLEMENTE,

					 ROBERT DALVA, TAK FUIJIMOTO

					  Second Unit Art Direction

					 LEON ERICKSON, AL LOCATELLI

				 Second Unit Production Managers

				 DAVID LESTER, PETER HERALD, PEPI LENZI

						Second Unit Make-up

					 RICK BAKER, DOUGLAS BESWICK

					Assistant Sound Editors

					  ROXANNE JONES, KAREN SHARP

					 Production Controller

						 BRIAN GIBBS

						  Location Auditor

						 RALPH M. LEO

						 Assistant Auditors

			STEVE CULLIP, PENNY McCARTHY, KIM FALKINBURG

				 Advertising/Publicity Supervisor


						 CHARLES LIPPINCOTT

						Unit Publicist

						 BRIAN DOYLE

						 Still Photographer

							 JOHN JAY

				MINIATURE AND OPTICAL EFFECTS UNIT

						First Camerman

						RICHARD EDLUND

						  Second Camerman

						 DENNIS MUREN

						 Assistant Camermen

			DOUGLAS SMITH, KENNETH RALSTON, DAVID ROBMAN

					Second Unit Photography

						 BRUCE LOGAN

					Composite Optical Photography

					ROBERT BLALACK (PRAXIS)

				 Optical Photography Coordinator

							PAUL ROTH

					  Optical Printer Operators

			DAVID BERRY, DAVID McCUE, RICHARD PECORELLA,

				  ELDON RICKMAN, JAMES VAN TREES, JR.

					  Optical Camera Assistants

				CALEB ASCHKYNAZO, JOHN C. MOULDS,

						  BRUCE NICHOLSON,

					  GARY SMITH, BERT TERRERI,

				  DONNA TRACEY, JIM WELLS, VICKY WITT

					 Production Supervisor

						  GEORGE E. MATHER

						 Matte Artist

						  P. S. ELLENSHAW

					 Planet and Satellite Artist

						RALF McQUARRIE

				 Effects Illustration and Design

						  JOSEPH JOHNSTON

					 Additional Spacecraft Design

						COLIN CANTWELL

						 Chief Model Maker

						 GRANT McCUNE

						Model Builders

			 DAVID BEASLEY, JON ERLAND, LORNE PETERSON,

				 STEVE GAWLEY, PAUL HUSTON, DAVID JONES

					Animation and Rotoscope Design

						 ADAM BECKETT

							Animators

			 MICHAEL ROSS, PETER KURAN, JONATHAN SEAY,

				 CHRIS CASADY, LYN GERRY, DIANA WILSON

					 Stop Motion Animation

					 JON BERG, PHIL TIPPET

						Miniature Explosions

					JOE VISKOCIL, GREG AUER

				Computer Animation and Graphics Displays

				 DAN O'BANNON, LARRY CUBA, JOHN WALSH,

					JAY TEITZELL, IMAGE WEST

					Film Control Coordinator

						 MARY M. LIND

						  Film Librarians

			 CINDY ISMAN, CONNIE McCRUM, PAMELA MALOUF

						 Electronic Designs


						  ALVAH J. MILLER

						 Special Components

						 JAMES SHOURT

						 Assistants,

				 MASAAKI NORIHORO, ELEANOR PORTER

					 Camera and Mechanical Design

				 DON TRUMBULL, RICHARD ALEXANDER,

						WILLIAM SHOURT

					 Special Mechanical Equipment

			  JERRY GREENWOOD, DOUGLAS BARNETT, STUART ZIFF,

						 DAVID SCOTT

						Production Managers

					BOB SHEPHERD, LON TINNEY

						  Production Staff

				PATRICIA ROSE DUIGNAN, MARK KLINE,

					RHONDA PECK, RON NATHAN

					 Assistant Editor (Opticals)

						BRUCE MICHAEL GREEN

					  Additional Optical Effects

					 VAN DER VEER PHOTO EFFECTS,

					 RAY MERCER & COMPANY,

						MODERN FILM EFFECTS,

						MASTER FILM EFFECTS

				DE PATIE-FRELENG ENTERPRISES, INC.

						

			 PANAVISION  TECHNICOLOR  Prints by DELUXE

				Making Films Sound Better, DOLBY SYSTEM

				 Noise Reduction -- High Fidelity

							CAST

Luke Skywalker								 MARK HAMILL

Han Solo									HARRISON FORD

Princess Leia Organa							 CARRIE FISHER

Grand Moff Tarkin							 PETER CUSHING

Ben (Obi-Wan) Kenobi							 ALEC GUINNESS

See-Threepio (C-3PO)						 ANTHONY DANIELS

Artoo-Detoo (R2-D2)							 KENNY BAKER

Chewbacca									PETER MAYHEW

Lord Darth Vader								 DAVID PROWSE

Uncle Owen									 PHIL BROWN

Aunt Beru									 SHELAGH FRASER

Chief Jawa									JACK PERVIS

General Dodonna								ALEX McCRINDLE

General Willard								EDDIE BYRNE

Red Leader									  DREWE HEMLEY

Red Two (Wedge)								 DENNIS LAWSON

Red Three (Biggs)							 GARRICK HAGON

Red Four (John "D")								JACK KLAFF

Red Six (Porkins)							 WILLIAM HOOTKINS

Gold Leader									ANGUS McINNIS

Gold Two									JEREMY SINDEN

Gold Five									  GRAHAM ASHLEY

General Taggi								DON HENDERSON

General Motti							RICHARD LE PARMENTIER

Commander One								LESLIE SCHOFIELD

					Photographed in Tunisia

					Tikal National Park, Guatemala

			 Death Valley National Monument, California

			 and at EMI Elstree Studios, Borehamwood, England

		 Music Recorded at Anvil Recording Studios, Denham, England

   Post Production Completed at American Zoetrope, San Francisco, California

	 Rerecording at Samuel Goldwyn Studios, Los Angeles, California

    The producers wish to thank the government of Tunisia, the Institute of

    Anthropology and History of Guatemala, and the National Park Service, 

    United States Department of the Interior, for their cooperation.

		  Copyright 1977 by Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation

					 A LUCASFILM LTD. PRODUCTION

	 Ownership of this motion picture is protected by copyright and other

	 applicable laws and any unauthorized duplication, distribution, or

	 exhibition of this motion picture could result in criminal prosecution

	 as well as civil liability.

				THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK

					 Written by

				   Lawrence Kasdan 

					    and 

				    Leigh Brackett

				   From a story by

					George Lucas

EXT. GALAXY - PLANET HOTH

A Star Destroyer moves through space, releasing Imperial probe robots 
from its underside.  

One of these probes zooms toward the planet Hoth and lands on its ice-
covered surface.  An explosion marks the point of
impact.  

EXT. HOTH - METEORITE CRATER - SNOW PLAIN - DAY

A weird mechanical sound rises above the whining of the wind.  A 
strange probe robot, with several extended sensors, emerges from the 
smoke-shrouded crater.  The ominous mechanical probe floats across the 
snow plain and disappears into the distance.

EXT. PLAIN OF HOTH - DAY

A small figure gallops across the windswept ice slope.  The bundled 
rider is mounted on a large gray snow lizard, a Tauntaun.  Curving 
plumes of snow rise from beneath the speeding paws of the two-legged 
beast.

The rider gallops up a slope and reins his lizard to a stop.  Pulling 
off his protective goggles, Luke Skywalker notices something in the 
sky.  He takes a pair of electrobinoculars from his utility belt and 
through them sees smoke rising from where the probe robot has crashed.

The wind whips at Luke's fur-lined cap and he activates a comlink 
transmitter.  His Tauntaun shifts and moans nervously beneath him.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Echo Three to Echo Seven.  Han, 
		old buddy, do you read me?

After a little static a familiar voice is heard.

				HAN
			(over comlink)
		Loud and clear, kid.  What's up?

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Well, I finished my circle.  I 
		don't pick up any life readings.

				HAN
			(over comlink)
		There isn't enough life on this 
		ice cube to fill a space cruiser.  
		The sensors are placed, I'm going 
		back.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Right.  I'll see you shortly.  
		There's a meteorite that hit the 
		ground near here.  I want to check 
		it out.  It won't take long.

Luke clicks off his transmitter and reins back on his nervous lizard.  
He pats the beast on the head to calm it.

				LUKE
		Hey, steady girl.  What's the 
		matter?  You smell something?

Luke takes a small device from his belt and starts to adjust it when 
suddenly a large shadow falls over him from behind.  He hears a 
monstrous howl and turns to see an eleven-foot-tall shape towering over 
him.  It is a Wampa Ice Creature, lunging at him ferociously.

				LUKE
		Aaargh!

Luke grabs for his pistol, but is hit flat in the face by a huge white 
claw.  He falls unconscious into the snow and in a moment the terrified 
screams of the Tauntaun are cut short by the horrible snap of a neck 
being broken.

The Wampa Ice Creature grabs Luke by one ankle and drags him away 
across the frozen plain.

EXT. HOTH - REBEL BASE ENTRANCE - DAY

A stalwart figure rides his Tauntaun up to the entrance of an enormous 
ice cave.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Rebel troopers rush about unloading supplies and otherwise securing 
their new base.  The rider, Han Solo, swings off his lizard and pulls 
off his goggles.

He walks into the main hangar deck toward the Millennium Falcon, which 
is parked among several fighters.  Mechanics, R2 units, and various 
other droids hurry about.  Han stops at the Millennium Falcon where his 
Wookiee copilot, Chewbacca, is welding on a central lifter.  Chewie 
stops his work and lifts his face shield, growling an irritated 
greeting to his boss.

				HAN
		Chewie!

The Wookiee grumbles a reply.

				HAN
		All right, don't lose your temper.
		I'll come right back and give you 
		a hand.

Chewbacca puts his mask back on and returns to his welding as Han 
leaves.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

A makeshift command center has been set up in a blasted area of thick 
ice.  The low-ceilinged room is a beehive of activity. Controllers, 
troops, and droids move about setting up electronic equipment and 
monitoring radar signals.

General Rieekan straightens up from a console at Han's approach.

				RIEEKAN
		Solo?

				HAN
No sign of life out there, General.
The sensors are in place.  You'll 
know if anything comes around.

				RIEEKAN
		Commander Skywalker reported in yet?

				HAN
		No.  He's checking out a meteorite 
		that hit near him.

				RIEEKAN
			(indicates radar 
			 screen)
		With all the meteor activity in this
		system, it's going to be difficult 
		to spot approaching ships.

Taking a deep breath, Han blurts out what is on his mind.

				HAN
		General, I've got to leave.  I 
		can't stay anymore.

Princess Leia, standing at a console nearby, is dressed in a short 
white combat jacket and pants.  Her hair is braided across her head in 
a Nordic fashion.  She overhears their  conversation and seems somewhat 
distressed.

				RIEEKAN
		I'm sorry to hear that.

				HAN
		Well, there's a price on my head.
		If I don't pay off Jabba the Hut, 
		I'm a dead man.

				RIEEKAN
		A death mark's not an easy thing 
		to live with.  You're a good
		fighter, Solo.  I hate to lose you.

				HAN
		Thank you, General.

He turns to Leia as Rieekan moves away.

				HAN
			(with feeling)
		Well, Your Highness, I guess this 
		is it.

				LEIA
		That's right.

Leia is angry.  Han sees she has no warmth to offer him.  He shakes his 
head and adopts a sarcastic tone.

				HAN
			(cooly)
		Well, don't get all mushy on me.
		So long, Princess.

Han walks away into the quiet corridor adjoining the command center.  
Leia stews a moment, then hurries after him.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDOR

				LEIA
		Han!

Han stops in the corridor and turns to face Leia.

				HAN
		Yes, Your Highnessness?

				LEIA
		I thought you decided to stay.

				HAN
		Well, the bounty hunter we ran 
		into on Ord Mantell changed my
		mind.  

				LEIA
		Han, we need you!

				HAN
		We?

				LEIA
		Yes.

				HAN
		Oh, what about you need?

				LEIA
			(mystified)
		I need?  I don't know what you're 
		talking about.

				HAN
			(shakes his head, 
			 fed up) 
		You probably don't.

				LEIA
		And what precisely am I supposed 
		to know?

				HAN
		Come on!  You want me to stay 
		because of the way you feel about
		me.

				LEIA
		Yes.  You're a great help to us.
		You're a natural leader...

				HAN
		No!  That's not it.  Come on.  
		Aahhh - uh huh!  Come on.

Leia stares at him, understanding, then laughs.

				LEIA
You're imagining things.

				HAN
		Am I?  Then why are you following 
		me?  Afraid I was going to leave
		without giving you a goodbye kiss?

				LEIA
		I'd just as soon kiss a Wookiee.

				HAN
		I can arrange that.  You could use 
		a good kiss!

Angrily, Han strides down the corridor as Leia stares after him.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ANOTHER ICE CORRIDOR

A familiar stream of beeps and whistles herald the approach of Artoo-
Detoo and See-Threepio, who appear around a corner and move along an 
ice wall toward the main hangar.

				THREEPIO
		Don't try to blame me.  I didn't 
		ask you to turn on the thermal 
		heater.  I merely commented that it 
		was freezing in the princess' 
		chamber.  But it's supposed to be 
		freezing.  How are we going to dry 
		out all her clothes?  I really don't 
		know.

Artoo beeps a stream of protesting whistles.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, switch off.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

The two robots stop at Han Solo's space freighter.  Han and Chewie are 
struggling with their central lifters.

				HAN
			(to Chewie)
		Why do you take this apart now? 
		I'm trying to get us out of here 
		and you pull both of these.

Chewie grumbles in irritation.

				THREEPIO
		Excuse me, sir.

				HAN
			(to Chewie)
		Put them back together right now.

				THREEPIO
		Might I have a word with you, 
		please?

				HAN
		What do you want?

				THREEPIO
		Well, it's Princess Leia, sir.
		She's been trying to get you on 
		the communicator.

				HAN
		I turned it off.  I don't want to 
		talk to her.

				THREEPIO
		Oh.  Well, Princess Leia is wondering 
		about Master Luke.  He hasn't come 
		back yet.  She doesn't know where he 
		is.

				HAN
		I don't know where he is.

				THREEPIO
		Nobody knows where he is.

				HAN
		What do you mean, "nobody knows"?

Han glances at the fading light at the entrance of the ice cave as 
night slowly begins to fall on the planet.

				THREEPIO
		Well, uh, you see...

Han jumps down off the lift, as Threepio follows him.

				HAN
		Deck Officer.  Deck Officer!

				THREEPIO
		Excuse me, sir.  Might I inqu...

Han abruptly puts his hand over Threepio's mouth as the deck officer 
approaches.

				DECK OFFICER
		Yes, sir?

				HAN
		Do you know where Commander 
		Skywalker is?

				DECK OFFICER
		I haven't seen him.  It's possible 
		he came in through the south entrance.

				HAN
		It's possible?  Why don't you go 
		find out?  It's getting dark out there.

				DECK OFFICER
		Yes, sir.

The deck officer leaves hurriedly, as Han takes his hand off Threepio's 
mouth.

				THREEPIO
		Excuse me, sir.  Might I inquire 
		what's going on?

				HAN
		Why not?

				THREEPIO
		Impossible man.  Come along, Artoo, 
		let's find Princess Leia.  Between 
		ourselves, I think Master Luke is 
		in considerable danger.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN ICE TUNNEL

The deck officer and his assistant hurry toward Han as he enters the 
tunnel.

				DECK OFFICER
		Sir, Commander Skywalker hasn't 
		come in through the south entrance.
		He might have forgotten to check in.

				HAN
		Not likely.  Are the speeders ready?

				DECK OFFICER
		Not yet.  We're having some trouble 
		adapting them to the cold.

				HAN
		Then we'll have to go out on 
		Tauntauns.

				DECK OFFICER
		Sir, the temperature's dropping too 
		rapidly.

				HAN
		That's right.  And my friends out 
		in it.

				ASSISTANT OFFICER
		I'll cover sector twelve.  Have 
		com-control set screen alpha.

Han pushes through the troops and mounts a Tauntaun.

				DECK OFFICER
		Your Tauntaun'll freeze before you 
		reach the first marker.

				HAN
		Then I'll see you in hell!

Han maneuvers his mount out of the cave and races into the dark bitter 
night.

EXT. HOTH - ICE GORGE - DUSK

The jagged face of a huge ice wall sits gloomily in the dim twilight of 
a Hoth day.  Luke hangs upside down, ankles frozen into icy 
stalactites, his extended arms within a foot of the snow floor.  One 
side of his face is covered in a dried mask of frozen blood.  He opens 
his eyes as a chilling moan of the hideous ice creature echoes off the 
gorge walls.  Luke pulls himself up, grabs hold of his ankles, and 
futilely tries to unfasten the throngs.

Exhausted, he drops back into his hanging position.  As he hangs there, 
he spies his lightsaber lying near a pile of his discarded gear, about 
three feet out of reach.

He focuses on the saber and, as his hand strains toward the weapon, he 
squeezes his eyes tight in concentration.

Just as the ice creature looms over Luke, the lightsaber jumps into 
Luke's hand.

The young warrior instantly ignites his sword, swinging up, and cuts 
himself loose from the ice.  He flops to the snow in a heap.  The 
startled creature moves back, his giant yellow eyes blinking.  Luke 
scrambles to his feet.  He swings his lightsaber and the beast screams 
in pain.

EXT. HOTH - ENTRANCE TO ICE GORGE - DUSK

Luke staggers out of the gorge into the dark and snowy twilight.  Weak 
and exhausted, he stumbles down a snow bank.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW PLAIN - DUSK

A small, lone figure riding a Tauntaun races through the hostile 
vastness of snow and cold.  As it runs, the Tauntaun's legs kick up 
large clouds of snow and ice into the snowy air.

EXT. HOTH - OUTSIDE ICE				 HANGAR - DUSK

Artoo stands in the falling snow, beeping worriedly.  Threepio moves 
stiffly over to him.

				THREEPIO
		You must come along now, Artoo.  
		There's really nothing more we can 
		do.  And my joints are freezing up.

Artoo beeps, long and low.

				THREEPIO
		Don't say thing like that!  Of 
		course we'll see Master Luke again.
		He'll be quite all right, you'll see.
			(to himself)
		Stupid little short-circuit.  He'll 
		be quite all right.

Threepio turns to go back inside the main hangar as Artoo mournfully 
keeps his vigil.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW DRIFT - DUSK

The wind is blowing quite strong now.  Luke struggles to stay upright, 
but a blast of freezing snow knocks him over.  He struggles to get up, 
but he can't.  The young warrior from Tatooine drags himself a couple 
of feet and then collapses.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK - ENTRANCE - NIGHT

Princess Leia stands inside the dark entrance to the Rebel base, 
waiting for a sign of the two Rebel heroes.  She shivers in the cold 
wind as, nearby, Chewie sits with his head in his hands.  In the 
background, Artoo and Threepio move through the doors.  

A Rebel lieutenant moves to Major Derlin, an officer keeping watch with 
the princess.

				LIEUTENANT
		Sir, all the patrols are in.
		There's still no contact from 
		Skywalker or Solo.

				THREEPIO
		Mistress Leia, Artoo says he's been 
		quite unable to pick up any signals, 
		although he does admit that his own 
		range is far too weak to abandon 
		all hope.

Leia nods an acknowledgment, but she is lost in thought.

				DERLIN
		Your Highness, there's nothing 
		more we can do tonight.  The shield 
		doors must be closed.

He turns to the lieutenant.

				DERLIN
		Close the doors.

				LIEUTENANT
		Yes, sir.

The lieutenant walks away.  Chewie lets out a long, mournful howl, 
somewhat like a coyote.  At the same moment, Artoo begins a complex 
series of efficient beeps.

				THREEPIO
		Artoo says the chances of survival 
		are seven hundred seventy-five...
		to one.

Leia stands praying to herself as the huge metal doors slam across the 
entrance of the ice cave.  The loud booms echo throughout the huge 
cavern.  Chewie lets out another suffering howl.

				THREEPIO
		Actually, Artoo has been known to 
		make mistakes... from time to time.
		Oh, dear, oh, dear.  Don't worry 
		about Master Luke.  I'm sure he'll 
		be all right.  He's quite clever, 
		you know... for a human being.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW DRIFT - DUSK

Luke lies face down in the snow, nearly unconscious.  Slowly he looks 
up and sees Ben Kenobi, barely visible through the blowing snow.  It is 
hard to tell if Kenobi is real or a hallucination.

				BEN
		Luke... Luke.

				LUKE
			(weakly)
		Ben?

				BEN
		You will go to the Dagobah system.

				LUKE
		Dagobah system?

				BEN
		There you will learn from Yoda, 
		the Jedi Master who instructed me.

The image of Ben fades, revealing a lone Tauntaun rider approaching 
from the windswept horizon.

				LUKE
			(groaning faintly)
		Ben... Ben.

Luke drops into unconsciousness.

Han pulls up and leaps off his mount.  He hurries to his snow-covered 
friend, cradling him in his arms.  Han's Tauntaun lets out a low, 
pitiful bellow.  But Han's concern is with Luke, and he shakes him 
urgently.

				HAN
		Luke!  Luke!  Don't do this, Luke.  
		Come on, give me a sign here.

Luke doesn't respond.  Han begins frantically rubbing and slapping 
Luke's unconscious face.  As he starts to lift the youth, Han hears a 
rasping sound behind him.  He turns, just in time to see his Tauntaun 
stagger and then fall over into the snow.

Han carries Luke to the moaning beast.  Then, with a final groan, the 
Tauntaun expires.

				HAN 
		Not much time.

He pushes Luke's inert form against the belly of the dead beast.

				LUKE
			(moaning)
		Ben... Ben...

				HAN
		Hang on, kid.

				LUKE
		Dagobah system...

Han ignites Luke's saber and cuts the beast from head to toe.  He 
quickly tosses it's steaming innards into the snow, then lifts Luke's 
inert form and stuffs him inside the carcass.

				HAN
			(reeling from the 
			 odor) 
		Whew...

				LUKE
		Dagobah...

				HAN
		This may smell bad, kid...

				LUKE
			(moaning)
		Yoda...

				HAN
		...but it will keep you warm... 
		til I get the shelter built.
			(struggling to get 
			 Luke inside the 
			 carcass) 
		Ooh... I thought they smelled bad 
		on the outside!

The wind has picked up considerably, making it difficult to move.  Han 
removes a pack from the dead creature's back, taking out a shelter 
container.  He begins to set up what can only be a pitiful protection 
against a bitter Hoth night.

EXT. HOTH - SNOWDRIFT - DAWN

Four snub-nosed armored snowspeeders race across the white landscape.

INT. SNOWSPEEDER COCKPIT

There is only one pilot, Zev, in the enclosed two-man craft.  He 
concentrates on the scopes which ring his cockpit.  He hears a low beep 
from one of his monitors.

				ZEV
			(into transmitter) 
		Echo Base... I've got something!  Not 
		much, but it could be a life form.

EXT. HOTH - SNOWDRIFT

The small craft banks and makes a slow arc, then races off in a new 
direction.

INT. SNOWSPEEDER - COCKPIT

The pilot switches over to a new transmitter.

				ZEV
			(into transmitter)
		This is Rogue Two.  this is Rogue 
		Two.  Captain Solo, so you copy?  
		Commander Skywalker, do you copy? 
		This is Rogue Two.

There is a sharp crackle of static, then a faint voice.

				HAN
			(filtered over 
			 Zev's receiver)
		Good morning.  Nice of you guys 
		to drop by.

				ZEV
			(switching transmitters) 
		Echo Base... this is Rogue Two.  I 
		found them.  Repeat, I found them.

EXT. HOTH - SNOWDRIFT - DAY

The small shelter Han set up is covered with snow on the windward side.  
A makeshift antenna rests gingerly on top the snowdrift.  Han spots 
Zev's snowspeeder approaching in the distance, and begins waving his 
arms frantically at the tiny craft.

INT. REBEL BASE - MEDICAL CENTER

Strange robot surgeons adjust a mass of electronic equipment.  A switch 
is thrown and a sudden blinding flash obscures Luke in a bacta tank 
filled with a thick, gelatinous slime.  He begins to thrash about, 
raving in delirium.

INT. REBEL BASE - MEDICAL CENTER - RECOVERY ROOM

Luke sits up in a recovery-room bed, weak but smiling.  His face shows 
terrible wounds from the Wampa's attack.  Threepio and Artoo enter the 
room.

				THREEPIO
		Master Luke, sir, it's so good 
		to see you fully functional again.

Artoo beeps his good wishes.

				THREEPIO
		Artoo expresses his relief, also.

Han and Chewie make their entrance.  The Wookiee growls a greeting.

				HAN
		How are you feeling, kid?  You 
		don't look so bad to me.  In 
		fact, you look strong enough to 
		pull the ears off a Gundark.

				LUKE
		Thanks to you.

				HAN
		That's two you owe me, junior.

Han turns as Leia enters the room.  He looks at her with a big, 
devilish grin.

				HAN
		Well your Worship, looks like 
		you managed to keep me around for
		a little while longer.

				LEIA
			(haughtily)
		I had nothing to do with it.  General 
		Rieekan thinks it's dangerous for 
		any ships to leave the system until 
		we've activated the energy shield.

				HAN
		That's a good story.  I think you 
		just can't bear to let a gorgeous 
		guy like me out of your sight.

				LEIA
		I don't know where you get your 
		delusions, laser brain.

Chewie is amused; he laughs in his manner.  Han, enjoying himself, 
regards Chewie good-humoredly.

				HAN
		Laugh it up, fuzzball.  But you 
		didn't see us alone in the south 
		passage.

Luke sparks to this; he looks at Leia.

				HAN
		She expressed her true feelings 
		for me.

Leia is flushed, eyes darting between Luke and Han.

				LEIA
		My...!  Why, you stuck up,... half-
		witted... scruffy-looking ...nerf-
		herder!

				HAN
		Who's scruffy-looking? 
			(to Luke) 
		I must have hit pretty close to 
		the mark to get her all riled up 
		like that, huh, kid?

Leia looks vulnerable for a moment, then the mask falls again, and she 
focuses on Luke.

				LEIA
		Why, I guess you don't know 
		everything about women yet?

With that she leans over and kisses Luke on the lips.  Then she turns 
on her heel and walks out, leaving everyone in the room slightly 
dumbstruck.  With some smugness, Luke puts his hands behind his head 
and grins.

Suddenly, in the distance, the muffled sound of an alarm is heard.

				ANNOUNCER
			(over loudspeaker)
		Headquarters personnel, report to 
		command center.

The voice repeats the order and Han, Chewie, Artoo, and Threepio hurry 
out of the room, bidding farewell to Luke.

				HAN
		Take it easy.

				THREEPIO
		Excuse us, please.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Rieekan looks up grimly from a console screen.  He calls over to Leia 
and Han.

				RIEEKAN
		Princess... we have a visitor.

The group hurries over to Rieekan.

				RIEEKAN
		We've picked up something outside 
		the base in zone twelve, moving 
		east.

				SENIOR CONTROLLER
		It's metal.

				LEIA
		Then it couldn't be one of those 
		creatures that attacked Luke.

				HAN
		It could be a speeder, one of ours.

				SENIOR CONTROLLER
		No.  Wait - there's something very 
		weak coming through.

Threepio steps up to the control panel and listens intently to the 
strange signal.

				THREEPIO
		Sir, I am fluent in six million 
		forms of communication.  This signal 
		is not used by the Alliance.  It 
		could be an Imperial code.

The transmission ends in static.

				HAN
		It isn't friendly, whatever it is.  
		Come on, Chewie, let's check it out.

				RIEEKAN
		Send Rogues Ten and Eleven to 
		station three-eight.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW PLAIN - DAY

The dark probe robot moves past the smoldering ruins of station three-
eight and down a ridge toward the Rebel base.  It raises a large 
antenna from the top of its head and begins to send out a piercing 
signal.

The probe droid has spotted Chewbacca who, not thirty feet away, has 
popped his head over a snow bank.  Instantly, the probe robot swings 
around, its deadly ray ready to fire.  But before it can get a shot 
off, it is hit from behind by a laser bolt, and explodes in a million 
pieces.

Han Solo replaces his blaster in its holster and peers intently at the 
smoldering remains of the Imperial probe.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Leia and Rieekan listen to Han on the comlink.

				HAN
			(over comlink)
		Afraid there's not much left.

				LEIA
			(into comlink)
		What was it?

				HAN
			(over comlink)
		Droid of some kind.  I didn't hit 
		it that hard.  It must have had a 
		self-destruct.

				LEIA
			(into comlink)
		An Imperial probe droid.

				HAN
			(over comlink)
		It's a good bet the Empire knows 
		we're here.

				RIEEKAN
		We'd better start the evacuation.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET

Darth Vader's Star Destroyer, larger and more awesome than the five 
Imperial Star Destroyers that surround it, sits in the vastness of 
space.  The six huge ships are surrounded by a convoy of smaller 
spacecraft.  TIE fighters dart to and fro.

INT. DARTH VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE - MAIN CONTROL DECK

Controllers working the vast complex of electronic controls hear 
ominous approaching footsteps and look up from their controls.  The 
squat, evil-looking Admiral Ozzel and the young, powerfully built 
General Veers, who have been conferring near the front, also feel the 
approaching presence and turn toward it.  Darth Vader, Lord of the 
Sith, enters like a chill wind.  As Vader moves across the wide bridge, 
Captain Piett hurries up to Ozzel.

				PIETT
		Admiral.

				OZZEL
		Yes, Captain

				PIETT
		I think we've got something, sir.  
		The report is only a fragment from 
		a probe droid in the Hoth system, 
		but it's the best lead we've had.

				OZZEL
			(irritated) 
		We have thousands of probe droids 
		searching the galaxy.  I want proof, 
		not leads!

				PIETT
		The visuals indicate life readings.

				OZZEL
		It could mean anything.  If we 
		followed every lead...

				PIETT
		But, sir, the Hoth system is supposed 
		to be devoid of human forms.

Vader moves to a large screen showing an image of the Rebel snow base.  
Rebel speeders can be seen approaching the base in the distance.

				VADER
		You found something?

				PIETT
		Yes, my lord.

				VADER
			(studying the image 
			 on the console screen) 
		That's it.  The Rebels are there.

				OZZEL
		My lord, there are so many uncharted 
		settlements.  It could be smugglers, 
		it could be...

				VADER
		That is the system.  And I'm sure 
		Skywalker is with them.  Set your 
		course for the Hoth system.  General 
		Veers, prepare you men.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - TRANSPORT BAY

A captain issues instructions to two of his men at the entrance to the 
main transport bay.  Several Rebel transports behind them are being 
loaded by men carrying heavy boxes and moving quickly, but not in 
panic.

				REBEL CAPTAIN
		Groups seven and ten will stay 
		behind to fly the speeders.  As 
		soon as each transport is loaded, 
		evacuation control will give 
		clearance for immediate launch.

				REBEL FIGHTER
		Right, sir.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Alarms sound.  Troops, ground crews, and droids rush to their alert 
stations.  Armored snowspeeders are lined up in attack formation near 
the main entrance.

In the midst of all this activity, Han does some frantic welding on the 
lifters of the Millennium Falcon.

Han finishes his work and hops down to the hangar floor.  He pulls out 
his comlink, all the while eyeing problematic lifters.

				HAN
			(into comlink, to 
			 Chewie)
		Okay, that's it.  Try it... Off! 
		Turn it off!  Turn it off!  Off!

Smoke rises from a minor explosion on the lifter.  Exasperated, Han 
surveys the new damage.

INT. REBEL BASE - MEDICAL CENTER

Luke dresses in readiness for the evacuation as his attending medical 
droid stands by.

				MEDICAL DROID
		Sir, it will take quite a while 
		to evacuate the T-forty- sevens.

				LUKE
		Well, forget the heavy equipment.
		There's plenty of time to get the 
		smaller modules on the transports.

				MEDICAL DROID
		Take care, sir.

				LUKE
		Thanks.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Pilots, gunners, and R2 units scurry about.  Luke, pulling on his 
heavy-weather jacket, is headed toward a row of armored speeders.  He 
stops at the rear of the Millennium Falcon, where Han and Chewie are 
trying to repair the right lifter with even more haste than before.

				LUKE
		Chewie, take care of yourself, 
		okay?

As Luke pats Chewie on the arm, Chewie puts his arms around Luke and 
gives him a tight hug.  Han is discussing the lifter with a repair 
droid when he sees Luke.

				HAN
		Hi, kid.
			(to droid)
		There's got to be a reason for 
		it.  Check it at the other end.
		Wait a second.
			(to Luke)
		You all right?

				LUKE
		Yeah.

				HAN
		Be careful.

				LUKE
		You, too.

Luke smiles, then waves at his friend and walks on.  After a few steps, 
he stops and looks back.  Han glances up and the two exchange a silent 
communication, each wishing the other safety, happiness - many things, 
all difficult to verbalize.

INT. REBEL BASE - CONTROL ROOM.

Alarms sound throughout the hidden Rebel base.  In the control room, a 
controller urgently gestures for General Rieekan to check a computer 
scan.

				CONTROLLER
		General, there's a fleet of Star 
		Destroyers coming out of hyperspace 
		in sector four.

				RIEEKAN
		Reroute all power to the energy 
		shield.  We've got to hold them till 
		all transports are away.  Prepare 
		for ground assault.

Rieekan exits hurriedly.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - VADER'S CHAMBER - MEDITATION CUBICLE

The dark cubicle is illuminated by a single shaft of light which falls 
on the brooding Dark Lord as he sits on a raised meditation cube.  
General Veers enters the room and approaches the silent, unmoving 
Vader.  Although seemingly very sure of himself, Veers is still not 
bold enough to interrupt the meditating lord.  The younger general 
stands quietly at attention until the evil presence speaks.

				VADER
		What is it, General?

				VEERS
		My lord, the fleet has moves out 
		of light-speed.  Com-Scan has 
		detected an energy field protecting 
		an area around the sixth planet of 
		the Hoth system.  The field is 
		strong enough to deflect any 
		bombardment.

				VADER
			(angrily)
		The Rebels are alerted to our 
		presence.  Admiral Ozzel came out 
		of light-speed too close to the 
		system.

				VEERS
		He felt surprise was wiser...

				VADER
		He is as clumsy as he is stupid.
		General, prepare your troops for a 
		surface attack.

				VEERS
		Yes, my lord.

Veers turns smartly and leaves as Vader activates a large viewscreen 
showing the bridge of his mighty ship.  Admiral Ozzel appears on the 
viewscreen, standing slightly in front of Captain Piett.

				OZZEL
		Lord Vader, the fleet has moved 
		out of light-speed, and we're 
		preparing to... Aaagh!

				VADER
		You have failed me for the last 
		time, Admiral.  Captain Piett.

Piett steps forward, as the admiral moves away, slightly confused, 
touching his throat as it begins to constrict painfully.

				PIETT
		Yes, my lord.

				VADER
Make ready to land out troops beyond 
the energy shield and deploy the 
fleet so that nothing gets off that 
system.  You are in command now, 
Admiral Piett.

				PIETT
		Thank you, Lord Vader.

Piett's pleasure about his unexpected promotion is not an unmixed 
emotion.  He glances warily at the struggling Admiral Ozzel who, with a 
final choke, stumbles and falls in a lifeless heap before him.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

With a sense of urgency, Leia quickly briefs a group of pilots gathered 
in the center of the hangar.

				LEIA
		All troop carriers will assemble 
		at the north entrance.  The heavy 
		transport ships will leave as 
		soon as they're loaded.  Only two 
		fighter escorts per ship.  The 
		energy shield can only be opened 
		for a short time, so you'll have 
		to stay very close to your transports.

				HOBBIE
		Two fighters against a Star Destroyer?

				LEIA
		The ion cannon will fire several 
		shots to make sure that any enemy 
		ships will be out of your flight 
		path.  When you've gotten past the 
		energy shield, proceed directly to 
		the rendezvous point.  Understood?

				PILOTS
			(in unison)
		Right.  Okay.

				LEIA
		Good luck.

				DERLIN
		Okay.  Everyone to your stations.  
		Let's go!

The pilots hurry away.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH - DAY

Rebel troops carry heavy bazooka-type weapons and position them along 
the snow trench.  Men hurriedly respond to their officers' yelled 
orders and brace themselves against the rhythmic gusts of bitter-cold 
wind.

Other troops load power packs into a gun turret and swing its guns into 
position.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - POWER GENERATORS

Near the base power generators, troops rush to set up their heavy 
battle equipment.  Buzzing loudly, the generators send along, sparking 
fingers of energy into the bitter Hoth wind.

INT. REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

The long line of Rebel controllers is tense, as are Princess Leia and 
General Rieekan, who are trying very hard not to show any fear.

				RIEEKAN
		Their primary target will be the 
		power generators.  Prepare to 
		open the shield.

EXT. ICE PLAIN

The Rebel transport and two escort fighters begin their departure from 
the ice planet.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER

A huge Imperial Star Destroyer rest against a sea of stars, far above 
the white surface of the planet Hoth.

INT. IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

An Imperial controller approaches his commander.

				CONTROLLER
		Sir, Rebel ships are coming into 
		our sector.

				CAPTAIN
		Good.  Our first catch of the day.

INT. REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

				WOMAN CONTROLLER
		Stand by, ion control... Fire!

EXT. REBEL BASE ICE CAVE - ION CANNON

The giant ball-shaped ion cannon rotates into position and blasts two 
red energy beams skyward.

EXT. SPACE - HOTH - REBEL TRANSPORT

The Rebel transport and its escort race away from the white planet, 
closely followed by the two red energy beams.

As the Rebel transport races toward the waiting Imperial Star 
Destroyer, it is overtaken by the two scarlet energy bolts.  The 
Imperial Star Destroyer is hit in the conning tower by the powerful 
bolts, which set up fiery explosions on its metal hull.

The big Star Destroyer veers, then spins wildly out of control.  As the 
Imperial ship careers into deep space, the Rebel transport races away 
to safety.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Pilots, gunners, and troopers hurry to their stations and their 
vehicles.

				ANNOUNCER
			(over loudspeaker)
		The first transport is away.

Everyone cheers at the announcement, which echoes through the hangar.  
Luke turns and walks on, heading toward his snowspeeder.  His gunner, 
Dack, a fresh-faced, eager kid, is glad to see him.  They climb in.

				DACK
		Feeling all right, sir?

				LUKE
		Just like new, Dack.  How about 
		you?

				DACK
		Right now I feel like I could take 
		on the whole Empire myself.

				LUKE
			(quietly, strapping 
			 in)
		I know what you mean.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN

A thin horizon line cuts across the bleak landscape.  Small dot-size 
objects begin to appear on the horizon, moving in the direction of the 
Rebel base.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH

A Rebel officer lifts a pair of electrobinoculars to his eyes.  Through 
the lens he sees a very close view of a giant Imperial snow walker.  He 
adjusts the view which then zooms back to reveal three more of the 
ominous battle machines.  Small flashes of yellow fire billow from the 
guns of the lumbering snow walkers.

The officer lowers his binoculars as the regular rhythmic pounding 
begins to make the ground vibrate.  The pounding grows louder and is 
accompanied by a high-pitched, metallic rattling.  The officer speaks 
into his comlink.

				TRENCH OFFICER
		Echo Station Three-T-Eight.

INT. REBEL BASE - CORRIDOR

Pilots and gunners race to their waiting snowspeeders.  Ice and snow 
begin falling from the walls of the corridor, shaken by the pounding 
Imperial snow walker as they draw ever nearer.

				TRENCH OFFICER
			(over comlink) 
		We have spotted Imperial walkers!

				CONTROLLER
Imperial walkers on the north 
ridge.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH

The Rebel troops aim their weapons at the horizon as explosions erupt 
all around them.  They are nervous and their grip on their weapons 
tightens from the cold and from fear.

Behind the troops a dozen snowspeeders race through the sky.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		Echo station Five-Seven.  We're 
		on our way.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

The fleet of snowspeeders races above the ice field at full throttle.  
They accelerate away from the base and head toward the distant walkers.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		All right, boys, keep tight now.

				DACK
		Luke, I have no approach vector.  
		I'm not set.

				LUKE
		Steady, Dack.  Attack pattern 
		delta.  Go now!

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

The cannons mounted on the walker head fire at the speeders.  Other 
walkers loom in the background.  Two speeders race away past two of the 
enormous walkers and bank to the right.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

				LUKE
		All right, I'm coming in.

He turns his speeder and heads directly at one of the walkers, flying 
toward its towering legs.  The horizon twists as the speeder banks 
between the legs.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Hobbie, you still with me?

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

Two speeders race directly at the head of a walker, then split and fly 
past it.

Three other walkers march onward, firing all cannons.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOWTRENCH

Rebel troops fire on the approaching walkers, as the snow and ice 
explode all around them.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

A speeder banks through and away from the legs of a walker.  Two other 
speeders pass the first speeder from the opposite direction.  Other 
Rebel craft race just above the icy plain.

A giant walker head swivels and fires, striking a snowspeeder and 
sending it crashing in a ball of flames.

INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

General Veers and two walker pilots keep a careful eye on the racing 
Rebel snowspeeders as they maneuver their lumbering war machine 
forward.

Luke's speeder banks in from the side of Veers's walker and heads 
straight for its viewport, blasting away.  An explosion hits the walker 
window, but dissipates, doing no harm.  The speeder roars up and over 
the impregnable war machine.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

Luke looks back at the walker as it grows smaller in the distance.

				LUKE
		That armor's too strong for 
		blasters.

On the horizon, another walker moves up past Luke's cockpit window, 
twisting out of sight as Luke banks and starts another run.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Rogue Group, use your harpoons 
		and tow cables.  Go for the legs.
		It might be our only chance of 
		stopping them.
			(to Dack)
		All right, stand by, Dack.

Dack is at the gunner's controls.

				DACK
		Luke, we've got a malfunction in 
		fire control.  I'll have to cut in 
		the auxiliary.

				LUKE
		Just hang on.  Hang on, Dack.  Get 
		ready to fire that tow cable.

Barely keeping his seat in the tumbling ship, Dack struggles to set up 
his harpoon gun.

Luke swings his speeder around and heads toward an oncoming walker.  
Laser bolts and flak fill the air, creating a deadly obstacle course 
for the tiny craft.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

Rogue Leader and another snowspeeder fly in tight formation toward the 
walker as explosions burst all around them.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

After sustaining a heavy volley of fire, Luke turns around to see if 
Dack is all right.

				LUKE
		Dack?  Dack!

Dack is lost.  Blood streams down his forehead, which rests on his 
smoldering controls.  Out the back window, an Imperial walker recedes 
in the distance.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH AREA

Rebel troops fire the dishlike ray gun while explosions erupt around 
them.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

Two walkers lumber toward the Rebel base as a speeder between them 
explodes in a ball of flames.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH

The dislike ray gun is hit by a laser bolt and instantly explodes.

INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

Through the cockpit window, Veers and his pilot can see the Rebel power 
generators in the distance.

A hologram of Darth Vader appears on a control panel screen.

				VEERS
		Yes, Lord Vader.  I've reached the 
		main power generator.  The shield 
		will be down in moments.  You may 
		start your landing.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		Rogue Three.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

				WEDGE
			(into comlink) 
		Copy, Rogue Leader

				LUKE 
			(over comlink) 
		Wedge, I've lost my gunner.  You'll 
		have to make this shot.  I'll cover 
		for you.  Set your harpoon.  Follow 
		me on the next pass.

				WEDGE
			(into comlink) 
		Coming around, Rogue Leader.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		Steady, Rogue Two

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

Wedge's speeder races through the legs of one of the monstrous walkers.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

				WEDGE
			(to gunner) 
		Activate harpoon.

Wedge's gunner reaches for a firing switch to activate the harpoon.  
The harpoon flashes out, and speeds toward the receding legs of the 
walker.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The harpoon hurtles toward the walker, In an instant it is embedded in 
one of the walker's legs.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

				WEDGE 
			(to gunner) 
		Good shot, Janson.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The speeder Rogue Three races around one of the giant walker's feet, 
trailing the cable behind it.  Continuing around the back foot, Rogue 
Three then circles the walker around the tail end.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

Wedge checks his controls and banks around the front of the walker.

				WEDGE
		One more pass.

				JANSON 
		Coming around.  Once more.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The speeder sweeps left to right in front of the giant legs, towing the 
cable behind it.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

				JANSON
		Once more.

Wedge swings the speeder between the legs of the giant walker.

				JANSON
		Cable out!  Let her go!

				WEDGE
		Detach cable.

EXT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE

The cable release on the back of the speeder snaps loose and the cable 
drops away.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

				JANSON
		Cable detached.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The speeder zooms away into the distance.  The tangled legs of the 
enormous war machine attempt a step, but as they do the giant Imperial 
walker begins to topple.  It teeters for a moment, and then crashes 
onto the icy ground, sending snow and metal pieces flying.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH

The troops in the trenches cheer at the sight of the crashing walker.

An officer gives a signal to his men and Rebel troops charge the fallen 
war machine.

				TRENCH OFFICER
		Come on!

The troops run toward the downed walker, followed by two Rebel speeders 
flying overhead.  Just as they reach the walker, it explodes, the 
impact throwing some of the men onto the frozen ground.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

Wedge lets out a triumphant yell, banking his speeder away from the 
fallen walker.

				WEDGE
			(into comlink) 
		Whooha!  That got him!

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		I see it, Wedge.  Good work.

INT. REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Large chunks of ice tumble into the command center as Leia and General 
Rieekan monitor computer screens.

				RIEEKAN
		I don't think we can protect two 
		transports at a time.

				LEIA 
		It's risky, but we can't hold out 
		much longer.  We have no choice.

				RIEEKAN
			(into comlink) 
		Launch patrols.

				LEIA
			(to an aide) 
		Evacuate remaining ground staff.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR

Muffled distant explosions create widening cracks in the ice roof of 
the hangar.  Trying to ignore the noise and falling bits of snow, Han 
works on one of the Falcon's lifters while Chewie works on one of the 
wings.  Noticing Chewie attach a wrong part, Han grows impatient.

				HAN
		No, no!  No!  This one goes there, 
		that one goes there.  Right?

In another area of the hangar, Threepio watches as Artoo is raised up 
into Luke's X-wing fighter.

				THREEPIO
		Artoo, you take good care of 
		Master Luke now, understand?  And
		... do take good care of yourself.  
		Oh, dear, oh, dear.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The fierce battle on the vast snow plains of Hoth rages on.  The 
Imperial walkers continue their slow, steady assault on the Rebel base, 
firing lasers as they lumber ever onward.  In the snow trench, Rebel 
troops fire large bazookalike guns and dishlike ray guns as explosions 
erupt around them.  A gun tower is hit by a laser bolt and instantly 
explodes.  Another blast destroys a ray gun.

INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

General Veers studies various readouts on his control panel.

				VEERS
		All troops will debark for ground 
		assault.  Prepare to target the 
		main generator.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

Luke's speeder and Rogue Two fly in formation, banking from right to 
left and flying above the erupting battlefield.  Flak bursts all around 
them.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

Luke, glancing over, sees Rogue Two on his left.  His ship shudders as 
flak bursts nearby.

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		Rogue Two, are you all right?

INT. ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE TWO - COCKPIT

				ZEV
			(into comlink) 
		Yeah.  I'm with you, Rogue Leader.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		We'll set harpoon.  I'll cover for you.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The two speeders race across the horizon toward the giant walkers.

INT. ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE TWO - COCKPIT

				ZEV
			(into comlink) 
		Coming around.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		Watch that cross fire, boys.

INT. ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE TWO - COCKPIT

				ZEV
			(into comlink) 
		Set for position three.
			(to gunner) 
		Steady.

				LUKE
			(over comlink) 
		Stay tight and low.

EXT. ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE TWO

Luke's speeder moves in formation with Rogue Two, when suddenly Zev's 
speeder is hit by a laser bolt.  His ship bucks violently under the 
impact and the cockpit explodes in a ball of flame.

Spewing smoke, the speeder hurtles toward a looming walker.  Before 
they collide.  Rogue Two explodes in a million flaming pieces.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

Desperately, Luke works the controls of his flak-buffeted ship.  
Suddenly, the speeder is rocked by a huge explosion.  Luke struggles 
with the controls with a look of terror on his face.  The speeder fills 
with smoke, and electrical sparks jump about the cockpit.

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		Hobbie, I've been hit!

INT. REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Apart from the distant thunder of laser blasts, the corridor is 
strangely quiet and empty.  Running footsteps echo through the freezing 
hallway, then Han appears.  Cracks have appeared in some of the walls 
and some pipes have broken, sending hot steam billowing into the 
underground hallways.  Han hurries into the command center.  It is a 
shambles, but some people are still at their posts.  As he enters, a 
gigantic cave-in almost obliterates the room.  He finds Leia and 
Threepio near one of the control boards.

				HAN
		You all right?

Leia nods.  She is surprised to see him.

				LEIA
		Why are you still here?

				HAN
		I heard the command center had 
		been hit.

				LEIA
		You got your clearance to leave.

				HAN
		Don't worry.  I'll leave.  First 
		I'm going to get you to your ship.

				THREEPIO
		Your Highness, we must take this 
		last transport.  It's our only hope.

				LEIA
			(to controller) 
		Send all troops in sector twelve 
		to the south slope to protect the 
		fighters.

A blast rocks the command center, throwing Threepio backward into Han's 
arms.

				ANNOUNCER
			(over loudspeaker) 
		Imperial troops have entered the 
		base.

				HAN
		Come on... that's it.

				LEIA
			(to head controller) 
		Give the evacuation code signal.  
		And get to your transports!

Leia looks exhausted.  Han grabs her and starts to lead her out.

As Han, Leia, and Threepio run out of the command center, the code 
signal can be heard echoing off the corridor walls.

				HEAD CONTROLLER
		K-one-zero... all troops disengage.

				THREEPIO
			(to Han and Leia) 
		Oh!  Wait for me!

EXT. BATTLEFIELD - SNOW TRENCH

Rebel troops retreat under the awesome Imperial onslaught.

				OFFICER
		Begin retreat!

				SECOND OFFICER
		Fall back!

Troops flee from the battle, the ground exploding around them.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

Three of the giant walkers, firing lasers, advance toward the Rebel 
headquarters.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW TRENCH

Continuing their retreat, the Rebels see the walkers looming ever 
nearer.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD - ICE PLAIN

On the battlefield, Luke watches as a walker foot rises and moves over 
him.  He looks up at the underbelly of the huge walker, passing 
overhead.

Running beneath the monstrous machine, Luke fires his harpoon gun at 
the walker's underside.  A thin cable follows the projectile from the 
gun.  The magnetic head and cable attach firmly to the metal hull.

Still running under the walker, Luke attaches the cable drum to his 
belt buckle.  Soon he is pulled up the cable and hangs dangling 
underneath the walker.

The walker's giant feet continue to pound onward across the frozen 
snow.  Stray laser bolts whistle by Luke as he climbs up the cable to 
the walker's hull, reaching a small hatch.  Hanging precariously, Luke 
cuts the solid metal hatch with his laser sword.

He takes a landmine from around his neck and throws it inside the 
Imperial machine.  Quickly, Luke starts down the cable and crashes onto 
the icy ground far below.  He lies unconscious as a giant rear leg 
passes by - and just misses him.

The giant walker stops in mid-step.  A muffled explosion comes from 
within - and then the walker's mechanical insides  are spewed out every 
conceivable opening.  The machine sits dead in its tracks, smoking like 
a locomotive on stilts.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

Veers's walker continues to advance toward the Rebel base.  The 
smoldering walker that Luke exploded stands smoking just to the right 
of Veers's path.

INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

Inside his walker, General Veers prepares to fire on the Rebel power 
generators.

				VEERS
		Distance to power generators?

				PILOT
		One-seven, decimal two-eight.

Veers reaches for the electrorangefinder and lines up the main 
generator.

				VEERS
		Target.  Maximum fire power.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The Rebel troops continue their desperate retreat, pushed back by the 
relentless Imperial assault.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDORS

With Threepio lagging behind, Han and Leia race through the crumbling 
ice corridors.  Suddenly, there is an explosion.  Han turns, grabs the 
princess, and pulls her to the wall as a tremendous cave-in blacks 
their path.

He takes the comlink from his pocket.

				HAN 
			(into comlink) 
		Transport, this is Solo.  Better 
		take off - I can't get to you.  
		I'll get the princess out on the 
		Falcon.

Han and Leia turn and race down the corridor.

				THREEPIO
		But... but... but... where are 
		you going?  Uh... come back!!

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Imperial troops have reached the base.  As they push through the 
blocked passageway, Darth Vader strides behind them.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDOR

Han and Leia run toward the entrance of the main hangar where the 
Millennium Falcon is docked.  Threepio still lags behind.

				THREEPIO
		Wait!  Wait for me!  Wait!  Stop!

The door to the hangar closes in his face.

				THREEPIO
			(exasperated) 
		How typical.

Quickly, the door reopens as Han reaches out and pulls the golden droid 
through.

				HAN
		Come on.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR

Chewie paces under the shelter of the Millennium Falcon's landing gear.  
The giant Wookiee pats the underbelly of his beloved ship and barks a 
few reassuring words.  As he searches worriedly for his captain, 
something at last catches his eye.

Chewie lets out a relieved shriek at seeing Han and Leia running toward 
the ship.  The Wookiee runs out into the falling ice, lets out a howl, 
then runs up the ship's ramp.  Han and Leia run up the ramp after him, 
closely followed by Threepio.

				HAN
		Hurry up, goldenrod, or you're 
		going to be a permanent resident!

				THREEPIO
		Wait!  Wait!

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDOR

Imperial troops run through the base corridors.  Vader surveys the 
place.  A huge chunk falls, almost hitting him, but  he calmly, 
purposefully, continues around it.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGER - MILLENNIUM FALCON

A distant, huge, explosion rocks the hangar deck.  Ice cakes come 
crashing down on the Millennium Falcon.

INT. MAIN HANGAR - MILLENNIUM FALCON - MAIN HOLD

Han, standing before a control panel, is busy flipping switches as 
Chewie watches a troublesome gauge.  A worried Leia observes their 
efforts.

				HAN
			(to Chewie)
		How's this?

The Wookiee barks a negative reply.

				LEIA
		Would it helped if I got out and 
		pushed?

				HAN
		It might.

Threepio clanks into the hold.

				THREEPIO
		Captain Solo, Captain Solo... sir, 
		might I suggest that you...

Han gives the gold robot a devastating look.

				THREEPIO
		It can wait.

INT. MAIN HANGAR - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

They move to the cockpit where Han flips some more switches.  Leia 
watches him, impatient, disbelieving.

				LEIA
		This bucket of bolts is never going 
		to get us past that blockade.

				HAN
		This baby's got a few surprises 
		left in her, sweetheart.

Han and Leia look out the cockpit window and see a squad of 
stormtroopers rushing into the far side of the hangar.

Quickly, Han straps himself into the pilot's seat and Leia into the 
navigator's chair.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR

Stormtroopers hurriedly set up a large bazookalike weapon.  Behind them 
the giant hangar doors open slowly.

EXT. MAIN HANGAR - MILLENNIUM FALCON

A laser gun appears on the Falcon and swings around to aim at the 
Imperial troops.

The stormtroopers, preparing to fire their bazooka cannon, are hit by 
the Falcon's fire and are thrown about in all directions.

INT. MAIN HANGAR - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Chewie rushes into the cockpit.

				HAN
		Come on!  Come on!  Switch over.
		Let's hope we don't have a burnout.

A laser hits the window near Chewie as he is settling into his chair.  
Letting out a loud whelp, Chewie quickly pulls back on the controls and 
the first stage of engine fire can be heard.  Han flashes a big grin at 
Leia.

				HAN
		See?

				LEIA
		Someday you're going to be wrong, 
		and I hope I'm there to see it.

Han looks at Chewie.

				HAN
		Punch it!

The roar of the Falcon's main engines blasts out everything as the ice-
cave wall rushes by outside the cockpit window.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR

More stormtroopers run into the hangar, closely followed by Vader.  
Hearing the loud roar of the Millennium Falcon's engines, Vader looks 
toward the main hangar doors just in time to see the Falcon lift up and 
disappear outside the cave.

EXT. HOTH - ICE SLOPE - DAY

Luke and two other pilots look up as the Millennium Falcon races above 
them, flying very close to the ground.

The three pilots turn then, and trudge onward toward their X-wing 
fighters, each going to his own ship.  Luke waves farewell, then heads 
toward his own fighter.  

Artoo, seated on his cubbyhole, chirps an excited greeting as Luke 
climbs aboard the spacecraft.

				LUKE
		Artoo!  Get her ready for takeoff.

From his ship, Luke sees Wedge in his own X-wing, preparing for 
takeoff.

				WEDGE
		Good luck, Luke.  See you at 
		the rendezvous.

Luke smiles and nods at Wedge, then lowers himself into the cockpit of 
his X-wing while Artoo waits in the cubbyhole, beeping impatiently.

				LUKE
		Don't worry, Artoo.  We're going, 
		we're going.

The canopy over the X-wing lowers and snaps shut.

EXT. SPACE -  LUKE'S X-WING

Luke's fighter, its wings closed, speeds away from the icy planet.  
Soon it disappears into the stars.

INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke, looking thoughtful, suddenly makes a decision.  He flips several 
switches.  The stars shift as he takes his fighter into a steep turn.  
The X-wing banks sharply and flies away in a new direction.

The monitor screen on Luke's control panel prints out a question from 
the concerned Artoo.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		There's nothing wrong, Artoo.
		I'm just setting a new course.

Artoo beeps once again.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		We're not going to regroup with 
		the others.

Artoo begins a protest, whistling an unbelieving, "What?!"

Luke reads Artoo's exclamation on his control panel.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		We're going to the Dagobah system.

Luke checks his readouts and makes a few adjustments.  He rides along 
with only the soft hum of the instruments to break the silence.  
Finally, Artoo chirps up.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Yes, Artoo?

Artoo utters a soft, carefully phrased steam of whistles.

				LUKE
			(into comlink, chuckling)
		That's all right.  I'd like to 
		keep it on manual control for a 
		while.

The little droid lets out a defeated whimper.  Luke smiles, and 
continues on his course.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

The Millennium Falcon speeds away from Hoth, closely followed by one 
huge Star Destroyer and four tiny TIE fighters.

As it is pursued, the Falcon races toward two very bright star-sized 
objects.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Inside the cockpit, Chewie lets out a loud howl.  Han checks as the 
ship is buffeted by exploding flak.  He appears to be doing six things 
at once.

				HAN
			(harried)
		I saw them!  I saw them!

				LEIA
		Saw what?

				HAN
		Star Destroyers, two of them, 
		coming right at us.

Threepio bumps and bangs his way into the cockpit.

				THREEPIO
		Sir, sir!  Might I suggest...

				HAN
			(to Leia)
		Shut him up or shut him down!
			(to Chewie)
		Check the deflector shield!

Chewie barks a reply as he readjusts an overhead switch.

				HAN
		Oh, great.  Well, we can still 
		outmaneuver them.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - STAR DESTROYERS

The Millennium Falcon races toward one of the huge oncoming Star 
Destroyers.  Suddenly, the Falcon starts into a deep dive straight 
down, closely followed by four TIE fighters.  The underside of the Star 
Destroyer continues on a collision course with two oncoming Star 
Destroyers.  Slowly, it starts to veer to the left.

INT. STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE
Out the front window, the two approaching Star Destroyers can be seen 
veering to the left.

				IMPERIAL OFFICER
		Take evasive action!

Alarms sound all over the huge ship.  The two other Star Destroyers get 
closer, one of them moving over the bridge so close that it makes 
brushing contact with it.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - TIE FIGHTERS

The Millennium Falcon races away from the colliding Star Destroyers, 
still followed by four TIE fighters.  Laser bolts spark the pitch-black 
skies.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Things have calmed down a bit, but the race isn't over yet.  Chewie 
barks at Han.  Leia is still trying to recover from the steep dive.  
The ship is buffeted by laser blasts.

				HAN
		Prepare to make the jump to light-
		speed.

				THREEPIO
		But, sir!

The buffeting of lasers becomes louder and stronger.

				LEIA
		They're getting closer!

				HAN
			(with a gleam in his 
			 eye)
		Oh yeah?  Watch this.

Expectantly, they look out the cockpit window as stars do not go into 
hyperspace, but just sit there.

Han and Chewie look at each other and are thrown into an acute state of 
concern.

				LEIA
		Watch what?

Han tries again.  Still nothing.

				HAN
		I think we're in trouble.

				THREEPIO
		If I may say so, sir, I noticed 
		earlier that the hyperdrive 
		motivator has been damaged.  It's 
		impossible to go to light-speed!

				HAN
		We're in trouble!

The explosions become heavier.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - TIE FIGHTERS - STAR DESTROYER

The Falcon races into the starry vastness, followed by the four 
Imperial TIE fighters and an Imperial Star Destroyer.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Stars race by as flak bursts outside the Falcon's window.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD

Han works furiously at some control panels while giving various orders 
to Chewie.

				HAN
		Horizontal boosters...!
			(Chewie barks)
		Alluvial dampers...!  Well that's 
		not it.
			(Chewie barks)
		Bring me the hydrospanners!

Chewie hurries over to the pit and places the tools on the edge.

				HAN
		I don't know how we're going to 
		get out of this one.

Suddenly, a loud thump hits the side of the Falcon, causing it to lurch 
radically.  Chewie barks.  The tools fall into the pit on top of Han.

				HAN
		Oww!  Chewie!

More turbulence rocks the ship.

				HAN
		That was no laser blast!  Something 
		hit us.

				LEIA
			(over comlink)
		Han, get up here!

				HAN
		Come on, Chewie!

Han climbs out of the hold like a shot.  Both he and Chewie run out of 
the hold and toward the cockpit.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Out the front cockpit window, they see hundreds of asteroids racing by.

				LEIA
		Asteroids!

Han changes places with Leia who has been at the controls, and Chewie 
gets into his chair.  Han works his controls as a chunk of rock crosses 
in front of the ship.

				HAN
		Oh, no!  Chewie, set two-seven-
		one.

				LEIA
		What are you doing?  You're not 
		actually going into an asteroid 
		field?

				HAN
		They'd be crazy to follow us, 
		wouldn't they?

Another asteroid thumps against the ship and Leia winces at the jolt.

				LEIA
		You don't have to do this to 
		impress me.

				THREEPIO
		Sir, the possibility of successfully 
		navigating an asteroid field is 
		approximately three thousand, seven 
		hundred and twenty to one.

				HAN
		Never tell me the odds!

EXT. ASTEROID BELT - MILLENNIUM FALCON

The Falcon turns into the asteroid storm and as the ship completes its 
turn, asteroids start coming straight at the cockpit windows.

A large asteroid tumbles away from the Falcon's path at top speed.  
Several smaller asteroids crash into the big one, creating small 
explosions on its surface.  Other asteroids of all sizes pass by in 
every direction, some colliding and exploding.  The tiny Millennium 
Falcon veers around the big asteroid and races past it through the rain 
of rocks, followed by four TIE fighters, which bob and weave around the 
asteroids.

One of the pursuing TIE fighters connects with an asteroid and 
explodes.  The other fighters are pelted with a steady stream of 
smaller explosions.

Two huge asteroids tumble toward the Millennium Falcon, which quickly 
banks around both of them.  The three TIE fighters follow in hot 
pursuit until one of the fighters scrapes an asteroid and tumbles out 
of control into deep space.

EXT. SPACE - STAR DESTROYER - ASTEROID BELT

The massive Star Destroyer blasts oncoming asteroids as it follows the 
Falcon.  Smaller asteroids explode across its vast surface.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - TIE FIGHTERS - ASTEROID BELT

The Falcon twists on its side as it races around an oncoming asteroid.  
Two TIE fighters follow in the distance, coming from either side.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Asteroids race by the cockpit window as Han pilots his trusty craft 
through the dangerous field.

Looking out the cockpit window, the Falcon crew sees a big asteroid 
drop past the window, narrowly missing their ship.

Chewie barks in terror as a slightly smaller asteroid comes especially 
close - to close - and bounces off the Falcon with a loud crunch.  
Threepio's hands cover his eyes.  He manages a short peek at the 
cockpit window.  Princess Leia sits stone-faced, staring at the action.  
Han gives her a quick look.

				HAN
		You said you wanted to be around 
		when I made a mistake; well, this 
		could be it, sweetheart.

				LEIA
		I take it back.  We're going to 
		get pulverized if we stay out here 
		much longer.

The group watches as more asteroids race by outside the window.

				HAN
		I'm not going to argue with that.

				THREEPIO
		Pulverized?

				HAN
		I'm going in closer to one of 
		those big ones.

				LEIA
		Closer?

				THREEPIO
		Closer?!

Chewbacca barks the same word, only louder.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - ASTEROID BELT

The Millennium Falcon dives toward the surface of one of the moon-sized 
asteroids.  There is a continued display of explosions against the 
starry void as smaller asteroids collide with larger chunks of rock.  
The two remaining TIE fighters follow the Falcon to the large asteroid.  
The Falcon skims the surface of the giant asteroid as, all the while, 
small asteroids explode on the surface of the ship.

The TIE fighters approach the Falcon, but a giant asteroid hurtles 
directly into their path.  As the asteroid continues on its way, it 
leaves remains of the two exploded TIE fighters to tumble into deep 
space.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Rattled by the violent rocking of the starship, Threepio is nearly in 
hysterics.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, this is suicide!

Han notices something on his main scope and nudges his faithful 
Wookiee, pointing.

				HAN
		There.  That looks pretty good.

				LEIA
		What looks pretty good?

				HAN
		Yeah.  That'll do nicely.

				THREEPIO
			(to Leia)
		Excuse me, ma'am, but where are 
		we going?

Out the cockpit window, they see that they are skimming the surface of 
the enormous asteroid and nearing a large crater.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GIANT ASTEROID CRATER

The Millennium Falcon dives into the huge crater and disappears.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

				LEIA
		I hope you know what you're doing.

				HAN
		Yeah, me too.

INT. GIANT ASTEROID CRATER

The Falcon races down into the crater.  The walls are barely visible as 
the ship speed through the tunnellike opening.  A small cave appears on 
one side of the crater, and the Falcon turns, slows, and scoots into 
it.

EXT. SPACE -  LUKE'S X-WING

The tiny X-wing speeds toward the cloud cover of Dagobah.  Artoo, 
riding on the back of the fighter, turns his head back and forth with 
some anxiety.

INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke watches Artoo's words as they are translated and screened on the 
computer scope.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Yes, that's it.  Dagobah.

Artoo beeps a hopeful inquiry.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		No, I'm not going to change my 
		mind about this.
			(getting a little nervous)
		I'm not picking up any cities or
		technology.  Massive life-form 
		readings, though.  There's something
		alive down there...

Artoo beeps, this time a slightly worried question.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Yes, I'm sure it's perfectly safe 
		for droids.

EXT. SPACE - DAGOBAH -  LUKE'S X-WING

The X-wing continues its flight through the twilight above the cloud-
covered planet.

INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke sees the cloud race by as he takes his craft closer to the planet.  
He must operate his controls carefully since the cloud cover has 
completely obscured his vision.  An alarm buzzes in the background, 
Artoo beeps and whistles frantically.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		I know, I know!  All the scopes are 
		dead.  I can't see a thing!  Just 
		hang on, I'm going to start the 
		landing cycle...

The blast of the retrorockets is deafening, drowning out Artoo's 
electronic squeals.  Suddenly, there is a cracking sound as if limbs 
were being broken off trees and then a tremendous jolt as the 
spacecraft stops.  Luke pulls a switch and his canopy pops open.

EXT. DAGOBAH - DUSK

The mist-shrouded X-wing fighter is almost invisible in the thick fog.  
Luke climbs out onto the long nose of the spacecraft as Artoo pops out 
of his cubbyhole on the back.  The young warrior surveys the fog, which 
is barely pierced by the ship's landing lights.  About all he can make 
out are some giant, twisted trees nearby.  Artoo whistles anxiously.

				LUKE
		No, Artoo, you stay put.  I'll 
		have a look around.

Artoo lets out a short beep.  As Luke moves along the nose, Artoo loses 
his balance and disappears with a splash into the boggy lake.

				LUKE
		Artoo?

Luke kneels and leans over the plane looking for Artoo, but the water 
is still and reveals no sign of the little droid.

				LUKE
		Artoo!  Where are you?

A small periscope breaks the surface of the water and a gurgly beep is 
heard.  The periscope starts to move to shore.  Relieved, Luke starts 
running along the nose of the fighter to its tip.

				LUKE
		Artoo!  You be more careful.

The outline of the shore is now more than ten feet away.

Luke jumps off the plane into the water, scrambles up to the shore, and 
turns to look for Artoo.  The periscope still steadily moves toward 
shore.

				LUKE
		Artoo - that way!

Suddenly, through the thick fog layer, a dark shape appears, moving 
toward the little droid.  The dark, sinuous bog beast dives beneath the 
swampy water, making a loud clunk against Artoo's metal hull.  The 
droid disappears from sight, uttering a pathetic electronic scream.

Holding his ignited lightsaber before him, Luke wades a few feet into 
the murky pool, looking for any sign of his little friend.

				LUKE
		Artoo!

The black surface is still as death itself... until a few bubbles begin 
to appear.  Then, phheewaat!! The runt-size robot is spit out of the 
water, makes a graceful arc, and comes crashing down into a patch of 
soft gray moss.

				LUKE
		Oh, no!  Are you all right?  Come 
		on.  You're lucky you don't taste 
		very good.  Anything broken?

Luke helps Artoo to his feet and begins wiping the mud and roots from 
his round metal body.  Artoo responds with feeble, soggy beeps.

				LUKE
		If you're saying coming here was 
		a bad idea, I'm beginning to agree 
		with you.  Oh, Artoo, what are we 
		doing here?  It's like... something 
		out of a dream, or, I don't know.  
		Maybe I'm just going crazy.

As Luke glances around at the spooky swamp jungle that surrounds him, 
Artoo ejects a stream of muddy water from one of his cranial ports.

EXT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - VADER'S CHAMBER

Admiral Piett hesitates in the entryway to Vader's private cubicle.

After a moment, he steps into the room and pauses at the surprising 
sight before him.

Darth Vader, his back turned, is silhouetted in the gloom on the far 
side of the chamber.  A black, insectlike droid attends him.  Among the 
various apparatuses surrounding them, a respirator tube now retracts 
from Vader's uncovered head.  The head is bald with a mass of ugly scar 
tissue covering it.  The black droid then lowers the mask and helmet 
onto Vader's head.  When it is in place, the Dark Lord turns to face 
Piett.

				VADER
		Yes, Admiral?

				PIETT
Our ships have sighted the 
Millennium Falcon, lord.  But... 
it has entered an asteroid field 
and we cannot risk...

				VADER
			(interrupting)
		Asteroids do not concern me, 
		Admiral.  I want that ship and 
		not excuses.

				PIETT
		Yes, lord.

EXT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

The pirate starship rests in a dark, dripping asteroid cave.  It is so 
dark that the cave's exact dimensions are impossible to determine.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han and Chewie busily shut down the engine and all electronic systems.  
Threepio and Leia watch worriedly.

				HAN
		I'm going to shut down everything 
		but the emergency power systems.  

				THREEPIO
		Sir, I'm almost afraid to ask, 
		but... does that include shutting 
		me down, too?

Chewie barks "yes".  But Han thinks otherwise.

				HAN
		No, I need you to talk to the 
		Falcon, find out what's wrong with 
		the hyperdrive.

Suddenly, the ship lurches, causing all the loose items in the cockpit 
to go flying.  Chewie howls.

				THREEPIO
		Sir, it's quite possible this 
		asteroid is not entirely stable.

				HAN
		Not entirely stable?  I'm glad you're 
		here to tell us these things.  Chewie, 
		take the professor in the back and 
		plug him into the hyperdrive.

				THREEPIO
		Oh!  Sometimes I just don't 
		understand human behavior.  After 
		all, I'm only trying to do my job 
		in the most...

The sliding door closes behind the indignant Threepio as Chewie and he 
move back to the hold.  Suddenly, the ship lurches again, throwing Leia 
across the cabin into Han's arms.  Then, abruptly, the motion stops as 
suddenly as it started.  With some surprise, Han and Leia realize they 
are in each other's arms.

				LEIA
		Let go.

				HAN
		Sshh!

				LEIA
		Let go, please.

Leia flushes, averting her eyes.  She's not exactly fighting to get 
free.  But, of course, Han blows it...

				HAN
		Don't get excited.

The anger rises in Leia.

				LEIA
		Captain, being held by you isn't 
		quite enough to get me excited.

				HAN
		Sorry, sweetheart.  We haven't 
		got time for anything else.

Han grins quickly wickedly at Leia as he turns and exits through the 
door.  Leia's confused emotions show clearly on her lovely face.

EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG CLEARING - DUSK

The mist has dispersed a bit, but it is still a very gloomy-looking 
swamp.

Luke pulls an equipment box from the shore to the clearing.  He ignites 
a little fusion furnace and warms his hands before it.  Taking a power 
cable, he plugs it into Artoo's noselike socket.

				LUKE
		Ready for some power?  Okay.  
		Let's see now.  Put that in 
		there.  There you go.

The droid whistles his appreciation.  Luke then opens a container of 
processed food and sits before the thermal heater.

				LUKE
			(sighs)
		Now all I have to do is find this 
		Yoda... if he even exists.

Nervously, he looks around at the foreboding jungle.

				LUKE
		Still... there's something familiar 
		about this place.  I feel like... 
		I don't know...

				STRANGE VOICE
		Feel like what?

Luke jumps out of his skin.  Artoo screeches in terror.  The young 
warrior grabs for his lightsaber as he spins around, looking for the 
speaker.  Mysteriously standing right in front of Luke is a strange, 
bluish creature, not more than two feet tall.  The wizened little thing 
is dressed in rags.  It motions toward Luke's sword.

				LUKE
			(looking at the 
			 creature)
		Like we're being watched!

				CREATURE
		Away with your weapon!  I mean 
		you no harm.

After some hesitation, Luke puts away his weapon, although he really 
doesn't understand why.  Artoo watches with interest.

				CREATURE
		I am wondering, why are you here?

				LUKE
		I'm looking for someone.

				CREATURE
		Looking?  Found someone, you have, 
		I would say, hmmm?

The little creature laughs.

				LUKE
			(Trying to keep from 
			 smiling)
		Right.

				CREATURE
		Help you I can.  Yes, mmmm.

				LUKE
		I don't think so.  I'm looking 
		for a great warrior.

				CREATURE
		Ahhh!  A great warrior.
			(laughs and shakes 
			 his head)
		Wars not make one great.

With the aid of a walking stick, the tiny stranger moves over to one of 
the cases of supplies.  He begins to rummage around.

Artoo moves to the edge of the case - standing almost eye level to the 
creature who is carelessly handling the supplies - and squeaks his 
disapproval.

Their tiny visitor pick up the container of food Luke was eating from 
and takes a bite.

				LUKE
		Put that down.  Hey!  That's my 
		dinner!

The creature spits out the bite he has taken.  He makes a face.

				CREATURE
		How you get so big, eating food 
		of this kind?

He flips the container in Luke's direction and reaches into one of 
Luke's supply cases.

				LUKE
		Listen, friend, we didn't mean to 
		land in that puddle, and if we 
		could get our ship out, we would, 
		but we can't, so why don't you just...

				CREATURE
			(teasing)
		Aww, cannot get your ship out?

The creature spots something of interest in Luke's case.  Luke loses 
patience and grabs the case away.  The creature retains his prize - a 
tiny power lamp - and examines it with delight.

				LUKE
		Hey, you could have broken this.
		Don't do that.  Ohhh... you're 
		making a mess.  Hey, give me that!

				CREATURE
			(retreating with 
			 the lamp)
		Mine!  Or I will help you not.

Clutching its treasure, the creature backs away from Luke, drawing 
closer to Artoo.  As Luke and the creature argue, one of Artoo's little 
arms slowly moves out toward the power lamp, completely unnoticed by 
the creature.

				LUKE
		I don't want your help.  I want 
		my lamp back.  I'll need it to 
		get out of this slimy mudhole.

				CREATURE
		Mudhole?  Slimy?  My home this is.

Artoo grabs hold of the lamp and the two little figures are immediately 
engaged in a tug-of-war over it.

Artoo beeps a few angry, "Give me thats."

				CREATURE
		Ah, ah, ah!

				LUKE
		Oh, Artoo, let him have it!

				CREATURE
		Mine!  Mine!

				LUKE
		Artoo!

				CREATURE
		Mine!

The creature lets go with one hand and pokes Artoo lightly with one 
finger.  Artoo reacts with a startled squeal, and lets go.

				CREATURE
		Mine!

				LUKE
			(fed up)
		Now will you move along, little 
		fella?  We're got a lot of work 
		to do.

				CREATURE
		No!  No, no!  Stay and help you, 
		I will.
			(laughs)
		Find your friend, hmm?

				LUKE
		I'm not looking for a friend. 
		I'm looking for a Jedi Master.

				CREATURE
		Oohhh.  Jedi Master.  Yoda.  You 
		seek Yoda.

				LUKE
		You know him?

				CREATURE
		Mmm.  Take you to him, I will.
			(laughs)
		Yes, yes.  But now, we must eat.
		Come.  Good food.  Come.

With that, the creature scurries out of the clearing, laughing merrily.  
Luke stares after him.  All he sees is the faint light from the small 
power lamp moving through the fog.  Luke makes his decision and starts 
after the creature.

				CREATURE
			(in the distance)
		Come, come.

Artoo, very upset, whistles a blue streak of protest.

				LUKE
		Stay here and watch after the 
		camp, Artoo.

Artoo beeps even more frantically.  But as Luke disappears from view, 
the worried little droid grows quieter, and utters a soft electronic 
sigh.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - MAIN HOLD AREA

Threepio whistles and beeps a strange dialect into the control panel in 
front of him.  The control panel whistles back a few mystifying beeps.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, where is Artoo when I need 
		him?

Han enters the hold area and kneels on the floor near the control box.

				THREEPIO
		Sir, I don't know where your ship 
		learned to communicate, but it 
		has the most peculiar dialect.  I 
		believe, sir, it says that the 
		power coupling on the negative 
		axis has been polarized.  I'm 
		afraid you'll have to replace it.

				HAN
		Well, of course I'll have to replace 
		it.

He hands a wire coil up to Chewie who is working near the ceiling.

				HAN
		Here!  And Chewie...

Chewie brings his head back through the trap door in the ceiling and 
whines.  Han glances back at Threepio, then speaks quietly to Chewie so 
only he can hear.

				HAN
			(continuing)
		... I think we'd better replace 
		the negative power coupling.

Leia finishes welding the valves she has been working on and attempts 
to reengage the system by pulling a lever attached to the valve.  It 
doesn't budge.  Han notices her struggle, and moves to help her.  She 
rebuffs him.

				HAN
		Hey, Your Worship, I'm only 
		trying to help.

				LEIA
			(still struggling)
		Would you please stop calling me 
		that?

Han hears a new tone in her voice.  He watches her pull on the lever.

				HAN
		Sure, Leia.

				LEIA
		Oh, you make it so difficult 
		sometimes.

				HAN
		I do, I really do.  You could be 
		a little nicer, though.
			(he watches her 
			 reaction)
		Come on, admit it.  Sometimes you 
		think I'm all right.

She lets go of the lever and rubs her sore hand.

				LEIA
		Occasionally...
			(a little smile, 
			 haltingly)
		... when you aren't acting like 
		a scoundrel.

				HAN
			(laughs)
		Scoundrel?  Scoundrel?  I like 
		the sound of that.

With that, Han takes her hand and starts to massage it.

				LEIA
		Stop that.

				HAN
		Stop what?

Leia is flushes, confused.

				LEIA
		Stop that!  My hands are dirty.

				HAN
		My hands are dirty, too.  What 
		are you afraid of?

				LEIA
			(looking right 
			 into his eyes)
		Afraid?

Han looks at her with a piercing look.  He's never looked more 
handsome, more dashing, more confident.  He reaches out slowly and 
takes Leia's hand again from where it is resting on a console.  He 
draws it toward him.

				HAN
		You're trembling.

				LEIA
		I'm not trembling.

Then with an irresistible combination of physical strength and 
emotional power, the space pirate begins to draw Leia toward him... 
very slowly.

				HAN
		You like me because I'm a scoundrel.
		There aren't enough scoundrels in 
		your life.

Leia is now very close to Han and as she speaks, her voice becomes an 
excited whisper, a tone completely in opposition to her words.

				LEIA
		I happen to like nice men.

				HAN
		I'm a nice man.

				LEIA
		No, you're not.  You're...

He kisses her now, with slow, hot lips.  He takes his time, as though 
he had forever, bending her body backward.  She has never been kissed 
like this before, and it almost makes her faint.  When he stops, she 
regains her breath and tries to work up some indignation, but finds it 
hard to talk.

Suddenly, Threepio appears in the doorway, speaking excitedly.

				THREEPIO
		Sir, sir!  I've isolated the 
		reverse power flux coupling.

Han turns slowly, icily, from their embrace.

				HAN
		Thank you.  Thank you very much.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, you're perfectly welcome, sir.

The moment spoiled, Han marches out after Threepio.

EXT. SPACE - ASTEROID FIELD

The Imperial fleet moves through the asteroid-filled void, intently 
seeking its prey.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Asteroids collide, creating a fireworks display outside the bridge 
window.  Darth Vader stands, staring out the window above the control 
deck.  Then slowly turns toward the bridge.  Before him are the 
hologram images of twenty battleship commanders.  One of these images, 
the commander of a ship that has just exploded, is fading away quickly.  
Another image, in the center and a little apart from the others, is 
faded and continually disrupted by static.  It is the image of Captain 
Needa, commander of the Star Destroyer most hotly on the tail of the 
Millennium Falcon.  Admiral Piett and an aide stand behind the Dark 
Lord.

				NEEDA
			(in hologram)
		... and that, Lord Vader, was the 
		last time they appeared in any of 
		our scopes.  Considering the amount 
		of damage we've sustained, they 
		must have been destroyed.

				VADER
		No, Captain, they're alive.  I 
		want every ship available to 
		sweep the asteroid field until 
		they are found.

The Imperial star captains fade out one by one as Vader turns to 
Admiral Piett.

				PIETT
Lord Vader.

				VADER
		Yes, Admiral, what is it?

The admiral is scared, his face white as a sheet.

				PIETT
		The Emperor commands you make 
		contact with him.

				VADER
		Move the ship out of the asteroid 
		field so that we can send a clear 
		transmission.

				PIETT
		Yes, my lord.

EXT. ASTEROID FIELD - VADER'S STAR DESTROYER

Vader's Imperial Star Destroyer moves against the vast sea of stars 
away from the rest of the fleet.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - VADER'S CHAMBER

The Dark Lord, Darth Vader, is alone in his chamber.  A strange sound 
enters the room and a light begins to play across Vader's black figure.  
He looks up and bows quickly.

A twelve-foot hologram of the Galactic Emperor materializes before 
Vader.  The Emperor's dark robes and monk's hood are reminiscent of the 
cloak worn by Ben Kenobi.  His voice is even deeper and more 
frightening than Vader's.

				VADER
		What is thy bidding, my master?

				EMPEROR
		There is a great disturbance in 
		the Force.

				VADER
		I have felt it.

				EMPEROR
		We have a new enemy - Luke 
		Skywalker.

				VADER
		Yes, my master.

				EMPEROR
		He could destroy us.

				VADER
		He's just a boy.  Obi-Wan can no 
		longer help him.

				EMPEROR
		The Force is strong with him.  The 
		son of Skywalker must not become a 
		Jedi.

				VADER
		If he could be turned, he would 
		become a powerful ally.

				EMPEROR
		Yes.  Yes.  He would be a great 
		asset.  Can it be done?

				VADER
		He will join us or die, my 
		master.

Vader kneels.  The supreme Emperor passes a hand over the crouched Lord 
of the Sith and fades away.

EXT. DAGOBAH - CREATURE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

A heavy downpour of rain pounds through the gnarled trees.  A strange 
baroque mud house sits on a moss-covered knoll on the edge of a small 
lagoon.  The small, gnomish structure radiates a warm glow from its 
thick glass windows.  As rain tap-dances a merry tune on Artoo's head, 
the stubby little droid rises up on his tip-toes to peek into one of 
the glowing portals.

INT. CREATURE'S HOUSE

Artoo, peeking in the window, sees the inside of the house - a very 
plain, but cozy dwelling.  Everything is in the same small scale as the 
creature.  The only thing out of place in the miniature room is Luke, 
whose height makes the four-foot ceiling seem even lower.  He sits 
cross-legged on the floor of the living room.

The creature is in an adjoining area - his little kitchen - cooking up 
an incredible meal.  The stove is a steaming hodgepodge of pots and 
pans.  The wizened little host scurries about chopping this, shredding 
that, and showering everything with exotic herbs and spices.  He rushes 
back and forth putting platters on the table in front of Luke, who 
watches the creature impatiently.

				LUKE
		Look, I'm sure it's delicious.  
		I just don't understand why we 
		can't see Yoda now.

				CREATURE
		Patience!  For the Jedi it is 
		time to eat as well.  Eat, eat.  
		Hot.  Good food, hm? Good, hmm?

Moving with some difficulty in the cramped quarters, Luke sits down 
near the fire and serves himself from the pot.  Tasting the unfamiliar 
concoction, he is pleasantly surprised.

				LUKE
		How far away is Yoda?  Will it 
		take us long to get there?

				CREATURE
		Not far.  Yoda not far.  Patience.
		Soon you will be with him.
			(tasting food from 
			 the pot)
		Rootleaf, I cook.  Why wish you 
		become Jedi?  Hm?

				LUKE
		Mostly because of my father, I 
		guess.

				CREATURE
		Ah, your father.  Powerful Jedi 
		was he, powerful Jedi, mmm.

				LUKE
			(a little angry)
		Oh, come on.  How could you know 
		my father?  You don't even know 
		who I am.
			(fed up)
		Oh, I don't know what I'm doing 
		here.  We're wasting our time.

The creature turns away from Luke and speaks to a third party.

				CREATURE
			(irritated)
		I cannot teach him.  The boy has 
		no patience.

Luke's head spins in the direction the creature faces.  But there is no 
one there.  The boy is bewildered, but it gradually dawns on him that 
the little creature is Yoda, the Jedi Master, and that he is speaking 
with Ben.

				BEN'S VOICE
		He will learn patience.

				YODA
		Hmmm.  Much anger in him, like his father.

				BEN'S VOICE
		Was I any different when you 
		taught me?

				YODA
		Hah.  He is not ready.

				LUKE
		Yoda!  I am ready.  I... Ben!  I 
		can be a Jedi.  Ben, tell him I'm 
		ready.

Trying to see Ben, Luke starts to get up but hits his head on the low 
ceiling.

				YODA
		Ready, are you?  What know you 
		of ready?  For eight hundred years 
		have I trained Jedi.  My own counsel 
		will I keep on who is to be trained!
		A Jedi must have the deepest 
		commitment, the most serious mind.
			(to the invisible 
			 Ben, indicating Luke)
		This one a long time have I watched.
		All his life has he looked away...
		to the future, to the horizon.
		Never his mind on where he was.
		Hmm?  What he was doing.  Hmph.  
		Adventure.  Heh!  Excitement.  Heh!  
		A Jedi craves not these things.
			(turning to Luke)
		You are reckless!

Luke looks down.  He knows it is true.

				BEN'S VOICE
		So was I, if you'll remember.

				YODA
		He is too old.  Yes, too old to 
		begin the training.

Luke thinks he detects a subtle softening in Yoda's voice.

				LUKE
		But I've learned so much.

Yoda turns his piercing gaze on Luke, as though the Jedi Master's huge 
eyes could somehow determine how much the boy had learned.  After a 
long moment, the little Jedi turns toward where he alone sees Ben.

				YODA
			(sighs)
		Will he finished what he begins?

				LUKE
		I won't fail you - I'm not afraid.

				YODA
			(turns slowly toward 
			 him)
		Oh, you will be.  You will be.

EXT. SPACE - STAR DESTROYERS - ASTEROID FIELD

The Imperial fleet around Vader's ship is surrounded by the asteroid 
storm.  Asteroids big and small pelt the vast exteriors of the menacing 
ships.  One of the smaller Imperial vessels is hit by a huge asteroid 
and explodes in a brilliant flash of light.

INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The cockpit is quiet and lit only by the indicator lights on the 
control panel.  Princess Leia sits in the pilot's seat.

She runs her hand across the control panel as she thinks of Han and the 
confusion he has created within her.  Suddenly, something outside the 
cockpit window catches her eye.  The reflection of the panel lights 
obscures her vision until a soft suctionlike cup attaches itself to the 
windscreen.  Leia
moves closer to see what it might be.  Large, yellow eyes flash open 
and stare back at her.  Startled, she jumps back into her seat, her 
heart pounding.  There is a scurry of feet and a loud screech, and in 
an instant the eyes are gone.  The young princess catches her breath, 
jumps out of her chair, and races from the cockpit.

INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD AREA

The lights go bright for a second then out again.  Threepio and 
Chewbacca watch as Han finishes with some wires.

				THREEPIO
		Sir, if I may venture an opinion...

				HAN
		I'm not really interested in your 
		opinion, Threepio.

Leia rushes into the cabin just as Han drops the final floor panel into 
place.

				LEIA
			(out of breath)
		There's something out there.

				HAN
		Where?

				LEIA
		Outside, in the cave.

As she speaks, there comes a sharp banging on the hull.  Chewie looks 
up and barks anxiously.

				THREEPIO
		There it is.  Listen!  Listen!

				HAN
		I'm going out there.

				LEIA
		Are you crazy?!

				HAN
		I just got this bucket back 
		together.  I'm not going to let 
		something tear it apart.

He and Chewie grab their breath masks off a rack and hurry out.  Leia 
follows.

				LEIA
		Then I'm going with you.

				THREEPIO
		I think it might be better if I 
		stay here and guard the ship.
			(hears another 
			 mysterious noise)
		Oh, no.

EXT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

It is very dark inside the huge asteroid cave, too dark to see what is 
attacking the ship.

Leia stamps her foot on the floor of the cave.

				LEIA
		This ground sure feels strange.
		It doesn't feel like rock at all.

Han kneels and studies the ground, then attempts to study the outline 
of the cave.

				HAN
		There's an awful lot of moisture 
		in here.

				LEIA
		I don't know.  I have a bad feeling 
		about this.

				HAN
		Yeah.

Chewie barks through his face mask, and points toward the ship's 
cockpit.  A five-foot-long shape can be seen moving across the top of 
the Falcon.  The leathery creature lets out a screech as Han blasts it 
with a laser bolt.

				HAN
			(to Leia)
		Watch out!

The black shape tumbles off the spaceship and onto the ground in front 
of the princess.  Han bends down to investigate the dead creature.

				HAN
		Yeah, that's what I thought.
		Mynock.  Chewie, check the rest 
		of the ship, make sure there 
		aren't any more attached.  They're 
		chewing on the power cables.

				LEIA
		Mynocks?

				HAN
		Go on inside.  We'll clean them 
		off if there are any more.

Just then, a swarm of the ugly creatures swoops through the air.  Leia 
puts her arms over her head to protect herself as she runs toward the 
ship.  Chewie shoos another Mynock away with his blaster.  Several of 
the batlike creatures flap their wings loudly against the cockpit 
window of the Falcon.  Inside, Threepio shudders at their presence.

				THREEPIO
		Ohhh!  Go away!  Go away!  Beastly 
		little thing.  Shoo!  Shoo!

Han looks around the strange, dripping cave.

				HAN
		Wait a minute...

He unholsters his blaster and fires at the far side of the huge cave.  
The cavern begins to shake and the ground starts to buckle.

Chewie barks and moves for the ship, followed closely by Leia and Han.  
The large wings of the Mynocks flap past them as they protect their 
faces and run up the platform.

INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - ENTRY AREA

As soon as Han and Leia are on board, Chewie closes the main hatch.  
The ship continues to shake and heave.

				HAN
		All right, Chewie, let's get 
		out of here!

The Wookiee heads for the cockpit as Han, followed by Threepio, rushes 
to the hold area and checks the scopes on the control panel.  Leia 
hurries after.

				LEIA
		The Empire is still out there.
		I don't think it's wise to...

Han rushes past her and heads for the cockpit.

				HAN
			(interrupting)
		No time to discuss this in
		committee.

And with that he is gone.  The main engines of the Falcon begin to 
whine.  Leia races after him, bouncing around in the shaking ship.

				LEIA
			(angry)
		I am not a committee!

INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han is already in the pilot's seat pulling back on the throttle.  The 
cave-quake has greatly diminished.

				LEIA
		You can't make the jump to light-
		speed in this asteroid field...

				HAN
		Sit down, sweetheart.  We're 
		taking off!

As the ship begins to move forward, Chewie barks.  He notices something 
out the window ahead.  Threepio sees it too.

				THREEPIO
		Look!

				HAN
		I see it, I see it.

Suddenly, a row of jagged white stalagmites and stalactites can be seen 
surrounding the entrance.  And as the Falcon moves forward, the 
entrance to the cave grows ever smaller.  Han pulls hard on the 
throttle, sending his ship surging forward.

				THREEPIO
		We're doomed!

				LEIA
		The cave is collapsing.

				HAN
		This is no cave.

				LEIA
		What?

Leia's mouth drops open .  She sees that the rocks of the cave entrance 
are not rocks at all, but giant teeth, quickly closing around the tiny 
ship.  Chewie howls.

INT. SPACE SLUG MOUTH

The Millennium Falcon, zooming through the monster's mouth, rolls on 
its side and barely makes it between two of the gigantic white teeth 
before the huge jaws slams closed.

EXT. CAVE ENTRANCE - GIANT ASTEROID

The enormous space slug moves its head out of the cave as the Falcon 
flies out of its mouth.  The monster tilts its head, watching the 
starship fly away.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GIANT ASTEROID

The Falcon races out of the asteroid crater and into the deadly rain of 
the asteroid storm.

EXT. DAGOBAH - DAY

With Yoda strapped to his back, Luke climbs up one of the many thick 
vines that grow in the swamp.  Panting heavily, he continues his course 
- climbing, flipping through the air, jumping over roots, and racing in 
and out of the heavy ground fog.

				YODA
		Run!  Yes.  A Jedi's strength 
		flows from the Force.  But beware 
		of the dark side.  Anger... fear... 
		aggression.  The dark side of 
		the Force are they.
		Easily they flow, quick to join 
		you in a fight.  If once you 
		start down the dark path, forever 
		will it dominate your destiny, 
		consume you it will, as it did 
		Obi-Wan's apprentice.

				LUKE
		Vader.  Is the dark side stronger?

				YODA
		No... no... no.  Quicker, easier, 
		more seductive.

				LUKE
		But how am I to know the good side 
		from the bad?

				YODA
		You will know.  When you are calm, 
		at peace.  Passive.  A Jedi uses 
		the Force for knowledge and 
		defense, never for attack.

				LUKE
		But tell me why I can't...

				YODA
			(interrupting)
		No, no, there is no why.  Nothing 
		more will I teach you today.
		Clear your mind of questions.  
		Mmm.  Mmmmmmmm.

Artoo beeps in the distance as Luke lets Yoda down to the ground.  
Breathing heavily, he takes his shirt from a nearby tree branch and 
pulls it on.

He turns to see a huge, dead, black tree, its base surrounded by a few 
feet of water.  Giant, twisted roots form a dark and sinister cave on 
one side.  Luke stares at the tree, trembling.

				LUKE
		There's something not right here.

Yoda sits on a large root, poking his Gimer Stick into the dirt.

				LUKE
		I feel cold, death.

				YODA
		That place... is strong with the 
		dark side of the Force.  A domain 
		of evil it is.  In you must go.

				LUKE
		What's in there?

				YODA
		Only what you take with you.

Luke looks warily between the tree and Yoda.  He starts to strap on his 
weapon belt.

				YODA
		Your weapons... you will not 
		need them.

Luke gives the tree a long look, than shakes his head "no."  Yoda 
shrugs.  Luke reaches up to brush aside some hanging vines and enters 
the tree.

INT. DAGOBAH - TREE CAVE

Luke moves into the almost total darkness of the wet and slimy cave.  
The youth can barely make out the edge of the passage.  Holding his lit 
saber before him, he sees a lizard crawling up the side of the cave and 
a snake wrapped around the branches of a tree.  Luke draws a deep 
breath, then pushes deeper into the cave.

The space widens around him, but he feels that rather than sees it.  
His sword casts the only light as he peers into the darkness.  It is 
very quiet here.

Then, a loud HISS! Darth Vader appears across the blackness, 
illuminated by his own just-ignited laser sword.  Immediately, he 
charges Luke, saber held high.  He is upon the youth in seconds, but 
Luke sidesteps perfectly and slashes at Vader with his sword.

Vader is decapitated.  His helmet-encased head flies from his shoulders 
as his body disappears into the darkness.  The metallic banging of the 
helmet fills the cave as Vader's head spins and bounces, smashes on the 
floor, and finally stops. For an instant it rests on the floor, then it 
cracks vertically.  The black helmet and breath mask fall away to 
reveal... Luke's head.

Across the space, the standing Luke gasps at the sight, wide-eyed in 
terror.

The decapitated head fades away, as in a vision.

EXT. DAGOBAH - CAVE - DUSK

Meanwhile, Yoda sits on the root, calmly leaning on his Gimer Stick.

EXT. SPACE - VADER'S STAR DESTROYER

Vader's Imperial Star Destroyer moves through space, guarded by its 
convoy of TIE fighters.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE - CONTROL DECK

Vader stands in the back control area of his ship's bridge with a 
motley group of men and creatures.  Admiral Piett and two controllers 
stand at the front of the bridge and watch the group with scorn.

				PIETT
		Bounty hunters.  We don't need 
		that scum.

				FIRST CONTROLLER
		Yes, sir.

				PIETT
		Those Rebels won't escape us.

A second controller interrupts.

				SECOND CONTROLLER
		Sir, we have a priority signal 
		from the Star Destroyer Avenger.

				PIETT
		Right.

The group standing before Vader is a bizarre array of galactic fortune 
hunters  There is Bossk, a slimy, tentacled monster with two huge, 
bloodshot eyes in a soft baggy face; Zuckuss and Dengar, two battle-
scarred, mangy human types; IG-88, a battered, tarnished chrome war 
droid; and Boba Fett, a man in a weapon-covered armored space suit.

				VADER
		... there will be a substantial 
		reward for the one who finds the 
		Millennium Falcon.  You are free 
		to use any methods necessary, but 
		I want them alive.  No disintegrations.

				BOBA FETT
		As you wish.

At that moment, Admiral Piett approaches Vader in a rush of excitement.

				PIETT
		Lord Vader!  My lord, we have 
		them.

EXT. IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER - ASTEROID BELT

The Millennium Falcon speeds through deep space, closely followed by a 
firing Imperial Star Destroyer.  A large asteroid about the same size 
as the Falcon tumbles rapidly toward the starship.  The tiny Falcon 
banks to avoid the giant asteroid as smaller rocks pelt its surface.  
Then the small craft roars under the asteroid which explodes harmlessly 
on the hull of the vast Star Destroyer.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The ship shudders as flak explodes near the cockpit window.  Threepio 
checks a tracking scope an the side control panel while Leia watches 
tensely out the window.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, thank goodness we're coming 
		out of the asteroid field.

Chewie barks excitedly as the rain of asteroids begins to subside.  A 
bolt from the Star Destroyer sets up a fiery explosion on the back side 
of the Falcon, causing it to lurch to one side.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER - ASTEROID FIELD

The Falcon is hit hard by another bolt from the Star Destroyer which 
creates a huge explosion near the cockpit of the smaller ship.  The 
Falcon tilts steeply, then rights itself.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han corrects the angle of his ship.

				HAN
		Let's get out of here.  Ready for 
		light-speed?  One... two... three!

Han pulls back on the hyperspace throttle and - nothing happens.  Flak 
bursts continue to rock the ship.

				HAN
			(frantic)
		It's not fair!

Chewie is very angry and starts to growl and bark at his friend and 
captain.  Again, Han desperately pulls back on the throttle.

				HAN
		The transfer circuits are working.
		It's not my fault!

Chewie puts his head in his hands, whining.

				LEIA
			(almost expecting 
			 it)
		No light-speed?

				HAN
		It's not my fault.

				THREEPIO
		Sir, we just lost the main rear 
		deflector shield.  One more direct 
		hit on the back quarter and we're 
		done for.

Han pauses for a moment, makes a decision, and pulls back on a lever.

				HAN
		Turn her around.

Chewie barks in puzzlement.

				HAN
		I said turn her around!  I'm 
		going to put all power in the 
		front shield.

				LEIA
		You're going to attack them?!

				THREEPIO
		Sir, the odds of surviving a 
		direct assault on an Imperial 
		Star Destroyer...

				LEIA
		Shut up!

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - ASTEROID FIELD

The Falcon banks, makes a steep, twisting turn.  In the next moment it 
is racing toward the Star Destroyer, looking very small against the 
massive surface of the Imperial ship.  As it moves across the surface 
of the Star Destroyer, the Falcon bobs and weaves to avoid the numerous 
flak bursts.

INT. STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER - BRIDGE

The tiny Falcon heads directly for the Avenger's bridge.  The Imperials 
stationed there are stunned to see the small spaceship racing low 
across the hull, headed directly at the huge windows of the bridge 
area.  Alarms go off everywhere.  The Destroyer's commander, Captain 
Needa, can scarcely believe his eyes.

				NEEDA
		They're moving to attack 
		position!  Shields up!

Needa and his men duck as the Falcon nears the bridge window.  At the 
last minute, the Falcon veers off and out of sight.  All is quiet.

				NEEDA
		Track them.  They may come 
		around for another pass.

				TRACKING OFFICER
		Captain Needa, the ship no longer 
		appears on our scopes.

				NEEDA
		They can't have disappeared.  No 
		ship that small has a cloaking 
		device.

				TRACKING OFFICER
		Well, there's no trace of them, 
		sir.

				COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER
		Captain, Lord Vader demands an 
		update on the pursuit.

				NEEDA
			(drawing a breath)
		Get a shuttle ready.  I shall 
		assume full responsibility for 
		losing them, and apologize to Lord 
		Vader. Meanwhile, continue to 
		scan the area.

				COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER
		Yes, Captain Needa.

EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG - DAY

Luke's face is upside-down and showing enormous strain.  He stands on 
his hands, with Yoda perched on his feet.  Opposite Luke and Yoda are 
two rocks the size of bowling balls.  Luke stares at the rocks and 
concentrates.  One of the rocks lifts from the ground and floats up to 
rest on the other.

				YODA
		Use the Force.  Yes...

Yoda taps Luke's leg.  Quickly, Luke lifts one hand from the ground.  
His body wavers, but he maintains his balance.  Artoo, standing nearby, 
is whistling and beeping frantically.

				YODA
		Now... the stone.  Feel it.

Luke concentrates on trying to lift the top rock.  It rises a few feet, 
shaking under the strain.  But, distracted by Artoo's frantic beeping, 
Luke loses his balance and finally collapses.  Yoda jumps clear.

				YODA
		Concentrate!

Annoyed at the disturbance, Luke looks over at Artoo, who is rocking 
urgently back and forth in front of him.

Artoo waddles closer to Luke, chirping wildly, then scoots over the 
edge of the swamp.  Catching on, Luke rushes to the water's edge.  The 
X-wing fighter has sunk, and only the tip of its nose shows above the 
lake's surface.

				LUKE
		Oh, no.  We'll never get it out 
		now.

Yoda stamps his foot in irritation.

				YODA
		So certain are you.  Always with 
		you it cannot be done.  Hear you
		nothing that I say?

Luke looks uncertainly out at the ship.

				LUKE
		Master, moving stones around is 
		one thing.  This is totally 
		different.

				YODA
		No!  No different!  Only different 
		in your mind.  You must unlearn 
		what you have learned.

				LUKE
			(focusing, quietly)
		All right, I'll give it a try.

				YODA
		No!  Try not.  Do.  Or do not.  
		There is no try.

Luke closes his eyes and concentrates on thinking the ship out.

Slowly, the X-wing's nose begins to rise above the water.  It hovers 
for a moment and then slides back, disappearing once again.

				LUKE
			(panting heavily)
		I can't.  It's too big.

				YODA
		Size matters not.  Look at me.  
		Judge me by my size, do you?  
		Hm?  Mmmm.

Luke shakes his head.

				YODA
		And well you should not.  For my 
		ally in the Force.  And a powerful 
		ally it is.  Life creates it, makes 
		it grow.  Its energy surrounds us 
		and binds us.  Luminous beings 
		are we...
			(Yoda pinches 
			 Luke's shoulder)
		... not this crude matter.
			(a sweeping gesture)
		You must feel the Force around you.
			(gesturing)
		Here, between you... me... the 
		tree... the rock... everywhere!  
		Yes, even between this land and 
		that ship!

				LUKE
			(discouraged)
		You want the impossible.

Quietly Yoda turns toward the X-wing fighter.  With his eyes closed and 
his head bowed, he raises his arm and points at the ship.

Soon, the fighter rises above the water and moves forward as Artoo 
beeps in terror and scoots away.

The entire X-wing moves majestically, surely, toward the shore.  Yoda 
stands on a tree root and guides the fighter carefully down toward the 
beach.

Luke stares in astonishment as the fighter settles down onto the shore.  
He walks toward Yoda.

				LUKE
		I don't... I don't believe it.

				YODA
		That is why you fail.

Luke shakes his head, bewildered.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET

The fleet around Vader's Star Destroyer now includes Needa's Star 
Destroyer, the Avenger.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

				VADER
		Apology accepted, Captain Needa.

Clutching desperately at his throat, Captain Needa slumps down, then 
falls over on his back, at the feet of Darth Vader.  Two stormtroopers 
pick up the lifeless body and carry it quickly away as Admiral Piett 
and two of his captains hurry up to the Dark Lord.

				PIETT
		Lord Vader, our ships have 
		completed their scan of the area 
		and found nothing.  If the 
		Millennium Falcon went into light-
		speed, it'll be on the other side 
		of the galaxy by now.

				VADER
		Alert all commands.  Calculate 
		every possible destination along 
		their last know trajectory.

				PIETT
		Yes, my lord.  We'll find them.

				VADER
		Don't fail me again, Admiral.

Vader exits as the admiral turns to an aide, a little more uneasy than 
when he arrived.

				PIETT
		Alert all commands.  Deploy the fleet.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET

Vader's ship moves away, flanked by its fleet of smaller ships.  the 
Avenger glides off into space in the opposite direction.  No one on 
that ship or on Vader's is aware that, clinging to the side of the 
Avenger, is the pirateship, the Millennium Falcon.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

				THREEPIO
		Captain Solo, this time you have 
		gone too far.
			(Chewie growls)
		No, I will not be quiet, Chewbacca.
		Why doesn't anyone listen to me?

				HAN
			(to Chewie)
		The fleet is beginning to break 
		up.  Go back and stand by the 
		manual release for the landing claw.

Chewie barks, struggles from his seat, and climbs out of the cabin.

				THREEPIO
		I really don't see how that is 
		going to help.  Surrender is a 
		perfectly acceptable alternative 
		in extreme circumstances.  The 
		Empire may be gracious enough...

Leia reaches over and shuts off Threepio, mid-sentence.

				HAN
		Thank you.

				LEIA
		What did you have in mind for 
		your next move?

				HAN
		Well, if they follow standard 
		Imperial procedure, they'll dump 
		their garbage before they go to 
		light-speed, then we just float 
		away.

				LEIA
		With the rest of the garbage.
		Then what?

				HAN
		Then we've got to find a safe 
		port somewhere around here.  Got 
		any ideas?

				LEIA
		No.  Where are we?

				HAN
		The Anoat system.

				LEIA
		Anoat system.  There's not much 
		there.

				HAN
		No.  Well, wait.  This is 
		interesting.  Lando.

He points to a computer mapscreen on the control panel.  Leia slips out 
of her chair and moves next to the handsome pilot.  Small light points 
representing several systems flash by on the computer screen.

				LEIA
		Lando system?

				HAN
		Lando's not a system, he's a man.
		Lando Calrissian.  He's a card 
		player, gambler, scoundrel.  You'd 
		like him.

				LEIA
		Thanks.

				HAN
		Bespin.  It's pretty far, but I 
		think we can make it.

				LEIA
			(reading from the 
			 computer)
		A mining colony?

				HAN
		Yeah, a Tibanna gas mine.  Lando 
		conned somebody out of it.  We 
		go back a long way, Lando and me.

				LEIA
		Can you trust him?

				HAN
		No.  But he has no love for the
		Empire, I can tell you that.

Chewie barks over the intercom.  Han quickly changes his readouts and 
stretches to look out the cockpit window.

				HAN
			(into intercom)
		Here we go, Chewie.  Stand by.
		Detach!

Han leans back in his chair and gives Leia an invisible smile.  She 
thinks for a moment, shakes her head; a grin creeps across her face and 
she gives him a quick kiss.

				LEIA
		You do have your moments.  Not 
		many, but you have them.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER

As the Avenger Star Destroyer moves slowly into space, the hatch on its 
underbelly opens, sending a trail of junk behind it.  Hidden among the 
refuse, the Falcon tumbles away.  In the next moment, the Avenger roars 
off into hyperspace.  The Falcon's engines are ignited, and it races 
off into the distance.  Amidst the slowly drifting junk, Boba Fett's 
ship appears and moves after the Falcon.

EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG - CLEARING - DAY

In the clearing behind Yoda's house, Luke again stands upside-down, but 
his face shows less strain and more concentration than before.  Yoda 
sits on the ground below the young warrior.  On the other side of the 
clearing, two equipment cases slowly rise into the air.  Nearby Artoo 
watches, humming to himself, when suddenly he, too, rises into the air.  
His little legs kick desperately and his head turns frantically, 
looking for help.

				YODA
		Concentrate... feel the Force 
		flow.  Yes.  Good.  Calm, yes.  
		Through the Force, things you 
		will see.  Other places.  The 
		future... the past.  Old friends 
		long gone.

Luke suddenly becomes distressed.

				LUKE
		Han!  Leia!

The two packing boxes and Artoo fall to the ground with a crash, then 
Luke himself tumbles over.

				YODA
			(shaking his head)
		Hmm.  Control, control.  You must 
		learn control.

				LUKE
		I saw... I saw a city in the 
		clouds.

				YODA
		Mmm.  Friends you have there.

				LUKE
		They were in pain.

				YODA
It is the future you see.

				LUKE
		Future?  Will they die?

Yoda closes his eyes and lowers his head.

				YODA
		Difficult to see.  Always in 
		motion is the future.

				LUKE
		I've got to go to them.

				YODA
		Decide you must how to serve 
		them best.  If you leave now, 
		help them you could.  But you 
		would destroy all for which they 
		have fought and suffered.

Luke is stopped cold by Yoda's words.  Gloom shrouds him as he nods his 
head sadly.

EXT. BESPIN SYSTEM - MILLENNIUM FALCON - DAWN

The powerful pirate starship blasts through space as it heads toward 
the soft pink planet of Bespin.

EXT. BESPIN SURFACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

It is down on the gaseous planet.  Huge billowing clouds form a canyon 
as the ship banks around them, heading toward the system's Cloud City.

Suddenly, two twin-pod cloud cars appear and move toward the Falcon.  
The cloud cars draw up alongside the starship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

One of the cloud cars opens fire on the Falcon, its flak rocking the 
ship.  Chewie barks his concern.

				HAN
			(into transmitter)
		No, I don't have a landing 
		permit.  I'm trying to reach 
		Lando Calrissian.

More flak bursts outside the cockpit window and rattles the ship's 
interior.  Leia looks worried.

				HAN
			(into transmitter)
		Whoa!  Wait a minute!  Let me 
		explain.

				INTERCOM VOICE
		You will not deviate from your 
		present course.

				THREEPIO
		Rather touchy, aren't they?

				LEIA
		I thought you knew this person.

Chewie barks and growls at his boss.

				HAN
			(to Chewie)
		Well, that was a long time ago.
		I'm sure he's forgotten about 
		that.

				INTERCOM VOICE
		Permission granted to land on 
		Platform Three-two-seven.

				HAN
			(into transmitter)
		Thank you.

Angry, Han snaps off the intercom.  Chewie looks at him and grunts.  
Han turns to the worried princess and her droid.

				HAN
		There's nothing to worry about.
		We go way back, Lando and me.

Leia doesn't look convinced.

				LEIA
		Who's worried?

EXT. CLOUD CITY - MILLENNIUM FALCON - CLOUD CARS

The clouds part to reveal a full view of the city as it bobs in and out 
of the cloud surface.  The cloud cars and the Falcon head for the 
gleaming white metropolis.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM - MILLENNIUM FALCON

With the cloud cars still guarding it, the Falcon lands on one of the 
Cloud City's platforms.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - DOOR OF MILLENNIUM FALCON

Han and Leia stand at the open door, armed.  Behind them, Chewie, also 
armed, surveys the scene warily.

				THREEPIO
		Oh.  No one to meet us.

				LEIA
		I don't like this.

				HAN
		Well, what would you like?

				THREEPIO
		Well, they did let us land.

				HAN
		Look, don't worry.  Everything's 
		going to be fine.  Trust me.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR - DAY

Lando Calrissian, a suave, dashing black man in his thirties, leads a 
group of aides and some Cloud City guard rapidly toward the landing 
platform.

The group, like the other citizens of the city, is a motley collection 
of aliens, droids, and humans of all descriptions.  Lando has a grim 
expression on his face as he moves onto the landing platform.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - DOOR OF MILLENNIUM FALCON

				HAN
		See?  My friend.
			(to Chewie)
		Keep your eyes open, okay?

Chewie growls as Han walks down the ramp.  Lando and his men head 
across the bridge to meet the space pirate.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM

Lando stops ten feet from Han.  The two men eye each other carefully.  
Lando shakes his head.

				LANDO
		Why, you slimy, double-crossing, 
		no-good swindler!  You've got a 
		lot of guts coming here, after 
		what you pulled.

Han points to himself innocently, mouthing, "Me?"

Lando moves threateningly toward Han.  Suddenly, he throws his arms 
around his startled, long-lost friend and embraces him.

				LANDO
			(laughs)
		How you doing, you old pirate? 
		So good to see you!  I never thought 
		I'd catch up with you again.  Where 
		you been?

The two old friends embrace, laughing and chuckling.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - DOOR OF MILLENNIUM FALCON.

				THREEPIO
Well, he seems very friendly.

				LEIA
			(wary)
		Yes... very friendly.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM

				LANDO
		What are you doing here?

				HAN
			(gestures toward 
			 the Falcon)
		Ahh... repairs.  I thought you 
		could help me out.

				LANDO
			(in mock panic)
		What have you done to my ship?

				HAN
		Your ship?  Hey, remember, you 
		lost her to me fair and square.

Chewie growls a reserved greeting.  Lando suddenly notices the princess 
and smiles.

				LANDO
		Hello.  What have we here?  
		Welcome.  I'm Lando Calrissian.
		I'm the administrator of this 
		facility.  And who might you be?

				LEIA
		Leia.

				LANDO
		Welcome, Leia.

Lando bows before Leia and kisses her hand.

				HAN
		All right, all right, you old 
		smoothie.

Han takes Leia by the hand and steers her away from Lando.

				THREEPIO
		Hello, sir.  I am See-Threepio, 
		human-cyborg relations.  My 
		facilities are at your...

Before Threepio can finish his self-introduction, Lando has turned to 
follow Han and Leia, who are walking toward the city.

				THREEPIO
		Well, really!

Lando, his aide, Lobot, and Han lead the way across the bridge, 
followed by Threepio, Chewie and Leia.

				LANDO
		What's wrong with the Falcon?

				HAN
		Hyperdrive.

				LANDO
		I'll get my people to work on it.

				HAN
		Good.

Lando turns to Leia.

				LANDO
		You know, that ship saved my life 
		quite a few times.  She's the 
		fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

The group has crossed the narrow bridge and entered the city.  They 
walk down the lovely Art Deco passageway, rounding several corners and 
passing many small plazas as they go.  Threepio lags a bit behind.

				HAN
		How's the gas mine?  Is it 
		paying off for you?

				LANDO
		Oh, not as well as I'd like.
		We're a small outpost and not 
		very self-sufficient.  And I've 
		had supply problems of every kind.
		I've had labor difficulties...
			(catches Han 
			 grinning at him)
		What's so funny?

				HAN
		You.  Listen to you - you sound 
		like a businessman, a responsible 
		leader.  Who'd have thought that, 
		huh?

Lando is reflective.  He looks at Han a moment.

				LANDO
		You know, seeing you sure 
		brings back a few things.

				HAN
		Yeah.

				LANDO
			(shakes his head)
		Yeah.  I'm responsible these days.
		It's the price you pay for being 
		successful.

Han and Lando laugh together, and the group moves on through the 
corridor.

The lagging Threepio passes a Threepio-type silver droid who is coming 
out of a door.

				THREEPIO
		Oh!  Nice to see a familiar face.

				SECOND THREEPIO
			(mumbles)
		E chu ta!

				THREEPIO
		How rude!

Threepio stops, watching the silver droid move away.  Then he hears the 
muffled beeping and whistling of an R2 unit coming from within the 
room.

INT. CLOUD CITY - ANTEROOM

Curious, Threepio enters the room.

				THREEPIO
		That sounds like an R2 unit in 
		there.  I wonder if...

Threepio walks through the doorway to the main room.  He looks in.

				THREEPIO
		Hello?  How interesting.  Oh, my.

				MAN'S VOICE
			(from within)
		Who are you?

				THREEPIO
		Oh, I'm terribly sorry.  I... I 
		didn't mean to intrude.  No, no, 
		please don't get up.  No!

A laser bolt to Threepio's chest sends him flying in twenty directions.  
Smoldering mechanical arms and legs bounce off the walls as the door 
whooshes closed behind him.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

Lando, Han, and Leia continue down the corridor unaware of Threepio's 
dreadful accident.  Chewbacca glances around, sniffs the air, but 
shrugs his shoulders and follows the group.

EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG - DUSK

In the bright lights of the fighter, Luke loads a heavy case into the 
belly of the ship.  Artoo sits on top of the X-wing, settling down into 
his cubbyhole.  Yoda stands nearby on a log.

				YODA
		Luke!  You must complete the 
		training.

				LUKE
		I can't keep the vision out of my 
		head.  They're my friends.  I've 
		got to help them.

				YODA
		You must not go!

				LUKE
		But Han and Leia will die if I 
		don't.

				BEN'S VOICE
		You don't know that.

Luke looks toward the voice in amazement.  Ben has materialized as a 
real, slightly shimmering image near Yoda.  The power of his presence 
stops Luke.

				BEN
		Even Yoda cannot see their fate.

				LUKE
		But I can help them!  I feel 
		the Force!

				BEN
		But you cannot control it.  This 
		is a dangerous time for you, 
		when you will be tempted by the 
		dark side of the Force.

				YODA
		Yes, yes.  To Obi-Wan you listen.
		The cave.  Remember your failure 
		at the cave!

				LUKE
		But I've learned so much since 
		then.  Master Yoda, I promise to 
		return and finish what I've begun. 
		You have my word.

				BEN
		It is you and your abilities the 
		Emperor wants.  that is why your 
		friends are made to suffer.

				LUKE
		And that is why I have to go.

				BEN
		Luke, I don't want to lose you to 
		the Emperor the way I lost Vader.

				LUKE
		You won't.

				YODA
		Stopped they must be.  On this 
		all depends.  Only a fully trained 
		Jedi Knight with the Force as his 
		ally will conquer Vader and his 
		Emperor.  If you end your training 
		now, if you choose the quick and 
		easy path, as Vader did, you will 
		become an agent of evil.

				BEN
		Patience.

				LUKE
		And sacrifice Han and Leia?

				YODA
		If you honor what they fight for
		... yes!

Luke is in great anguish.  He struggles with the dilemma, a battle 
raging in his mind.

				BEN
		If you choose to face Vader, you 
		will do it alone.  I cannot 
		interfere.

				LUKE
		I understand.
			(he moves to his 
			 X-wing)
		Artoo, fire up the converters.

Artoo whistles a happy reply.

				BEN
		Luke, don't give in to hate - 
		that leads to the dark side.

Luke nods and climbs into his ship.

				YODA
		Strong is Vader.  Mind what you 
		have learned.  Save you it can.

				LUKE
		I will.  And I'll return.  I promise.

Artoo closes the cockpit.  Ben and Yoda stand watching as the roar of 
the engines and the wind engulf them.

				YODA
			(sighs)
		Told you, I did.  Reckless is 
		he.  Now matters are worse.

				BEN
		That boy is our last hope.

				YODA
			(looks up)
		No.  There is another.

EXT. SPACE - PLANET DAGOBAH

Luke's tiny X-wing rockets away from the green planet of Dagobah and 
off into space.

INT. CLOUD CITY - LIVING QUARTERS - DAY

Within the quarters assigned her on Cloud City, Leia paces in 
agitation.  She has changed from her cold-weather pants and jacket to a 
lovely dress.  Her hair is down, tied back with ribbons.  She moves 
from a large, open window and turns to see Han entering through the 
doorway.

				HAN
		The ship is almost finished.
		Two or Three more things and 
		we're in great shape.

				LEIA
		The sooner the better.  Something's 
		wrong here.  No one has seen or 
		knows anything about Threepio.
		He's been gone too long to have 
		gotten lost.

Han takes Leia by the shoulders and gently kisses her forehead.

				HAN
		Relax.  I'll talk to Lando and 
		see what I can find out.

				LEIA
		I don't trust Lando.

				HAN
		Well, I don't trust him, either.
		But he is my friend.  Besides, 
		we'll soon be gone.

				LEIA
		And then you're as good as gone, 
		aren't you?

Not speaking, Han considers her words and gazes at her troubled face.

INT. CLOUD CITY - JUNK ROOM

The room is piled high with broken and discarded machine parts.  Four 
Ugnaughts, small hoglike creatures, separate the junk and throw some 
pieces onto a conveyer belt which moves briskly toward a pit of molten 
metal.  Pieces of Threepio's golden body move down the belt.  Chewie 
enters the room and spots an Ugnaught picking up and inspecting 
Threepio's head.  The Wookiee barks a command, startling the Ugnaught, 
then reaches to grab the head.  But the Ugnaught tosses it away from 
him to another Ugnaught.  This game of keep-away goes on until 
Threepio's head falls from their grip and bounces with a clang onto the 
ground.

INT. CLOUD CITY - LIVING QUARTERS - DAY

The door zaps open.  Chewbacca walks in, carrying a packing case of 
Threepio, arms and legs hanging over the edge.

				LEIA
		What happened?

Chewie sets the case on a table, grunting and groaning an explanation.

				HAN
		Where?  Found him in a junk pile?

				LEIA
		Oh, what a mess.  Chewie, do you 
		think you can repair him?

The giant Wookiee studies the array of robot parts.  He looks at the 
princess and shrugs sadly.

				HAN
		Lando's got people who can fix 
		him.

				LEIA
		No, thanks.

There is a buzz and the door slides open, revealing Lando.

				LANDO
		I'm sorry.  Am I interrupting 
		anything?

				LEIA
		Not really.

				LANDO
		You look absolutely beautiful.
		You truly belong here with us 
		among the clouds.

				LEIA
			(coolly)
		Thank you.

				LANDO
		Will you join me for a little 
		refreshment?

Han looks at Lando suspiciously, but Chewie barks at the mention of 
food and licks his lips.

				LANDO
		Everyone's invited, of course.

Leia takes Lando's proffered arm, and the group turns to go.  Lando 
spots Threepio's remains.

				LANDO
		Having trouble with you droid?

Han and Leia exchange a quick glance.

				HAN
		No.  No problem.  Why?

Han and Leia move arm-in-arm through the door, followed by Lando and 
Chewie.  The door slides closed behind them.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR - DAY

Leia walks between Han and Lando as Chewie follows a short distance 
behind.  Long shafts of light pour across the corridor between tall, 
pure-white columns.

				LANDO
		So you see, since we're a small 
		operation, we don't fall into 
		the... uh... jurisdiction of the 
		Empire.

				LEIA
		So you're part of the mining 
		guild then?

				LANDO
		No, not actually.  Our operation 
		is small enough not to be noticed... 
		which is advantageous for everybody 
		since our customers are anxious 
		to avoid attracting attention to 
		themselves.

The group walks into another corridor and heads for a huge doorway at 
the far end.

				HAN
		Aren't you afraid the Empire's 
		going to find out about this 
		little operation and shut you down?

				LANDO
		That's always been a danger looming 
		like a shadow over everything we've 
		built here.  But things have 
		developed that will insure security.
		I've just made a deal that will 
		keep the Empire out of here forever.

INT. CLOUD CITY - DINING ROOM

The mighty doors to the dining room slide open and the group enters the 
dining room.  At the far end of a huge banquet table sits Darth Vader.  
Standing at his side and slightly behind him is Boba Fett, the bounty 
hunter.

Faster than the wink of an eye, Han draws his blaster and pops off a 
couple of shots directly at Vader.  The Dark Lord quickly raises his 
hand, deflecting the bolts into one of the side walls, where they 
explode harmlessly.  Just as quickly, Han's weapon zips into Vader's 
hand.  The evil presence calmly places the gun on the table in front of 
him.

				VADER
		We would be honored if you would 
		join us.

Han gives Lando a mean look.

				LANDO
		I had no choice.  They arrived 
right before you did.  I'm sorry.
		
				HAN
		I'm sorry, too.

EXT.  LUKE'S X-WING - BESPIN SYSTEM

Luke's X-wing races through thick clouds toward Cloud City.

INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke is grim-faced as he pilots his course toward Bespin's shining 
city.  Artoo's beeps and whistles are transmitted onto the scope.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		No, Threepio's with them.

Artoo whistles another worried inquiry.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Just hang on.  We're almost there.

INT. CLOUD CITY - LARGE CELL

Chewbacca is in a Cloud City prison cell.  The stark room is flooded 
with hot light.  To add to Chewie's misery, a high-pitched whistle 
screeches loudly.  Chewie is going mad.  He hits the wall with giant 
fists as he paces back and forth across the cell floor.  The upper 
lights go off abruptly.  The prisoner rubs his eyes and moves to a 
wall, where he listens for a moment.  Then, moaning to himself, he 
moves to a platform where the disassembled pieces of Threepio lie.  He 
picks up the golden droid's head and meditates on it for a moment, 
barking a few philosophical remarks.  Chewie sticks the robot's head on 
its torso and starts adjusting wires and circuits.

Suddenly, the lights in Threepio's eyes spark to life as Chewie touches 
two connectors together.  Threepio immediately begins to speak, but his 
voice is so slow and so low as to be nearly unintelligible.

				THREEPIO
		Mmmm.  Oh, my.  Uh, I, uh - Take 
		this off!  I, uh, don't mean to 
		intrude here.  I, don't, no, no, 
		no... Please don't get up.  No!

Chewie looks at Threepio in bewilderment, then scratches his furry 
head.  He gets an idea and adjusts some connections, whereupon Threepio 
immediately begins speaking normally.

				THREEPIO
		Stormtroopers?  Here?  We're in 
		danger.  I must tell the others.
		Oh, no!  I've been shot!

INT. CLOUD CITY - PRISON ENTRY AREA

Darth Vader strides through the room as two stormtroopers prepare an 
elaborate torture mechanism.  Han is strapped to a rack which tilts 
forward onto the torture device.  Vader activates the mechanism, 
creating two bursts of sparks, one of which strikes Han's face.

The door opens, and Vader leaves the torture room just as Han screams a 
sharp, piercing cry of agony.  Darth Vader moves to the holding 
chamber, where Lando and Boba Fett await him.

INT. CLOUD CITY - HOLDING CHAMBER

				LANDO
		Lord Vader.

				VADER
			(to Fett)
		You may take Captain Solo to 
		Jabba the Hut after I have 
		Skywalker.

Han's screams filter through the torture room door.

				BOBA FETT
		He's no good to me dead.

				VADER
		He will not be permanently damaged.

				LANDO
		Lord Vader, what about Leia and 
		the Wookiee?

				VADER
		They must never again leave this 
		city.

				LANDO
		That was never a condition of our 
		agreement, nor was giving Han to 
		this bounty hunter!

				VADER
		Perhaps you think you're being 
		treated unfairly.

				LANDO
		No.

				VADER
		Good.  It would be unfortunate if 
		I had to leave a garrison here.

Vader turns and sweeps into the elevator with Boba Fett.  Lando walks 
swiftly down another corridor, muttering to himself.

				LANDO
		This deal's getting worse all 
		the time.

INT. CLOUD CITY - LARGE CELL

Chewie now has a little more of Threepio back together.  One arm is 
connected, but the legs are yet to be attached.  There is one small 
problem, however.  It seems the Wookiee has managed to put the droid's 
head on backwards.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, yes, that's very good.  I like 
		that.  Oh!  Something's not right 
		because now I can't see.  Wait.  
		Wait!  Oh, my!  what have you done?  
		I'm backwards, you stupid furball.  
		Only an overgrown mophead like you 
		would be stupid enough...

Threepio is cut off in mid-sentence as Chewie angrily deactivates a 
circuit and the droid shuts down.  The Wookiee smells something and 
sits up.  The door to the chamber slides open and a ragged Han Solo is 
shoved into the room by two stormtroopers.  Barking his concern, the 
huge Wookiee gives Han a big hug.  Han is very pale, with dark circles 
under his eyes.

				HAN
		I feel terrible.

Chewie helps Han to a platform and then turns as the door slides open 
revealing Leia.  She, too, looks a little worse for wear.  The troopers 
push her into the cell, and the door slides closed.  She moves to Han, 
who is lying on the platform, and kneels next to him, gently stroking 
his head.

				LEIA
		Why are they doing this?

				HAN
		They never even asked me any 
		questions.

The cell door slides open.  Lando and two of his guards enter.

				LEIA
		Lando.

				HAN
		Get out of here, Lando!

				LANDO
		Shut up and listen!  Vader has 
		agreed to turn Leia and Chewie 
		over to me.

				HAN
		Over to you?

				LANDO
		They'll have to stay here, but at 
		least they'll be safe.

				LEIA
		What about Han?

				LANDO
		Vader's giving him to the bounty 
		hunter.

				LEIA
		Vader wants us all dead.

				LANDO
		He doesn't want you at all.  He's 
		after somebody called Skywalker.

				HAN
		Luke?

				LANDO
		Lord Vader has set a trap for him.

Leia's mind is racing.

				LEIA
		And we're the bait.

				LANDO
		Well, he's on his way.

Han's rage peaks.

				HAN
		Perfect.  You fixed us all pretty 
		good, didn't you?
			(spits it out)
		My friend!

Han hauls off and punches Lando.  The two friends are instantly engaged 
in a frantic close-quarters fight.  The guards hit Han with their rifle 
butts and he flies across the room.  Chewie growls and starts for the 
guards.  They point their laser weapons at the giant Wookiee, but Lando 
stops them.

				LANDO
		Stop!  I've done all I can.  I'm 
		sorry I couldn't do better, but 
		I have my own problems.

				HAN
		Yeah, you're a real hero.

Lando and the guards leave.  Han wipes the blood from his chin as Leia 
and Chewie help him up.

				LEIA
			(dabs at his wound)
		You certainly have a way with 
		people.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

Four armor-suited stormtroopers stand at the ready in the large 
chamber, which is filled with pipes and chemical tanks.  In the middle 
of the room is a round pit housing a hydraulic platform.  Darth Vader 
and Lando stand near the platform.

				VADER
		This facility is crude, but it 
		should be adequate to freeze 
		Skywalker for his journey to the 
		Emperor.

An Imperial soldier appears.

				IMPERIAL SOLDIER
		Lord Vader, ship approaching.
		X-wing class.

				VADER
		Good.  Monitor Skywalker and allow 
		him to land.

The soldier bows and leaves the chamber.

				LANDO
		Lord Vader, we only use this 
		facility for carbon freezing.  If 
		you put him in there, it might 
		kill him.

				VADER
		I do not want the Emperor's prize 
		damaged.  We will test it... on 
		Captain Solo.

Lando's face registers dismay.

EXT. SPACE - BESPIN SYSTEM -  LUKE'S X-WING

Luke's X-wing moves through the clouds as it nears the city.

INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Encountering no city guards, Luke scans the display panel with concern.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

There is a great activity on the carbon-freezing platform.  Six 
Ugnaughts frantically prepare the chamber for use.  A special 
coffinlike container is put in place.  With Boba Fett in the lead, a 
squad of six stormtroopers brings in Han, Leia and Chewie.  Strapped to 
Chewie's back, with only his head, torso, and one arm assembled, is 
Threepio.  Threepio's head faces the opposite direction from Chewie's 
and the droid is constantly twisting around in a vain effort to see 
what is happening.  His one attached arm is animate and expressive, 
intermittently pointing, gesturing, and covering his eyes.  The 
remaining pieces of his body are randomly bundled to the Wookiee's back 
so that his legs and other arm stick out at odd angles from the pack.

				THREEPIO
		If only you had attached my legs, 
		I wouldn't be in this ridiculous 
		position.  Now, remember, Chewbacca, 
		you have a responsibility to me, 
		so don't do anything foolish.

				HAN
			(to Lando)
		What's going on... buddy?

				LANDO
		You're being put into carbon freeze.

Boba Fett moves away from the group to Darth Vader.

				BOBA FETT
		What if he doesn't survive?  He's 
		worth a lot to me.

				VADER
		The Empire will compensate you 
		if he dies.  Put him in!

Realizing what is about to happen, Chewie lets out a wild howl and 
attacks the stormtroopers surrounding Han.  Within seconds, other 
Imperial reinforcements join the scuffle, clubbing the giant Wookiee 
with their laser weapons.

From the instant of Chewie's first move, Threepio begins to scream in 
panic while he tries to protect himself with his one arm.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, no!  No, no, no!  Stop, 
		Chewbacca, stop...!

The stormtroopers are about to bash Chewie in the face.

				HAN
		Stop, Chewie, stop!  Do you hear 
		me?  Stop!

				THREEPIO
		Yes, stop, please!  I'm not ready 
		to die.

Han breaks away from his captors.  Vader nods to the guards to let him 
go and the pirate breaks up the fight.

				HAN
		Chewie!  Chewie, this won't help 
		me.  Hey!

Han gives the Wookiee a stern look.

				HAN
		Save your strength.  There'll be 
		another time.  The princess - you 
		have to take care of her.  You 
		hear me?

Han winks at the Wookiee, who wails a doleful farewell.

In a flash the guards have slipped binders on Chewbacca, who is too 
distraught to protest.  Han turns to Princess Leia.  They look 
sorrowfully at one another, then Han moves toward her and gives her a 
final, passionate kiss.

				LEIA
		I love you!

				HAN
		I know.

Tears roll down Leia's face as she watches the dashing pirate walk to 
the hydraulic platform.  Han looks one final time at his friends - and 
then, suddenly, the platform drops.  Chewie howls.  Leia turns away in 
agony.

Lando winces in sorrow; it makes a life-changing impression on him.

Instantly, fiery liquid begins to pour down in a shower of sparks and 
fluid as great as any steel furnace.  Holding Leia, Chewie half-turns 
away from the sight, giving Threepio a view of the procedure.

				THREEPIO
		What... what's going on?  Turn 
		round, Chewbacca, I can't see.  
		Oh... they've encased him in 
		carbonite.  He should be quite 
		well-protected - if he survives 
		the freezing process, that is.

Chewie is in no mood for technical discussion; he gives the droid an 
angry glance and bark.

A huge mechanical tong lifts the steaming metal-encased space pirate 
out of the vat and stands him on the platform.  Some Ugnaughts rush 
over and push the block over onto the platform.  They slide the 
coffinlike structure to the block and lift the metal block, placing it 
inside.  They then attach an electronic box onto the structure and step 
away.  Lando kneels and adjusts some knobs, measuring the heat.  He 
shakes his head in relief.

				VADER
		Well, Calrissian, did he survive?

				LANDO
		Yes, he's alive.  And in perfect 
		hibernation.

Vader turns to Boba Fett.

				VADER
		He's all yours bounty hunter.
		Reset the chamber for Skywalker.

				IMPERIAL OFFICER
		Skywalker has just landed, my 
		lord.

				VADER
		Good.  See to it that he finds 
		his way here.  Calrissian, take 
		the princess and the Wookiee to 
		my ship.

				LANDO
		You said they'd be left in the 
		city under my supervision.

				VADER
		I am altering the deal.  Pray I 
		don't alter it any further.

Lando's hand instinctively goes to his throat as he turns to Leia, 
Chewie, and Threepio.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR - DAY

As Luke and Artoo move carefully down a deserted corridor, they hear a 
group of people coming down a side hallway.  Artoo lets out an excited 
series of beeps and whistles.  Luke glares at the tiny droid, who stops 
in his tracks with a feeble squeak.

Boba Fett enters from a side hallway followed by two guards pushing the 
floating, encased body of Han Solo.  Two stormtroopers, who follow, 
immediately spot Luke and open fire on him.  The youth draws his weapon 
and blasts the two troopers before they can get off a second shot.  The 
two guards whisk Han into another hallway as Fett lowers his arm and 
fires a deadly laser at Luke, which explodes to one side and tears up a 
huge chunk of wall.

Luke rushes to a side hallway, but by the time he reaches it, Fett, 
Han, and the guards are gone.  A think metal door blocks the passage.  
Luke turns to see Leia, Chewie, Threepio, and Lando being herded down a 
second hallway by several other stormtroopers.  Leia turns just in time 
to see Luke.

				LEIA
		Luke!  Luke, don't - it's a 
		trap!  It's a trap!

Before she can finish, she is pulled through a doorway and disappears 
from sight.  Luke races after the group, leaving little Artoo trailing 
behind.

INT. CLOUD CITY - ANTEROOM

Luke runs into an anteroom and stops to get his bearings.  Leia and the 
others are nowhere to be seen.  Behind Luke, Artoo scoots down the 
corridor toward the anteroom when suddenly a giant metal door comes 
slamming down, cutting off Luke's exit.  Several more doors clang shut, 
echoing through the chamber.

INT. CLOUD CITY - HALLWAY LEADING TO ANTEROOM

Artoo stands with his nose pressed against the giant metal door.  He 
whistles a long sigh of relief and, a little dazed, wanders off in the 
other direction.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER - ANTEROOM

Luke cautiously walks forward among hissing pipes and steam.  Seeing an 
opening above him, he stops to look up.  As he does, the platform he 
stands on begins to move.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

Luke rises into the chamber, borne by the platform.  The room is 
deathly quiet.  Very little steam escapes the pipes and no one else 
seems to be in the large room.  Warily, Luke walks toward the stairway.

Steam begins to build up in the chamber.  Looking up through the steam, 
Luke sees a dark figure standing on a walkway above him.  Luke holsters 
his gun and moves up the stairs to face Vader.  He feels confident, 
eager to engage his enemy.

				VADER
		The Force is with you, young 
		Skywalker.  But you are not a 
		Jedi yet.

Luke ignites his sword in answer.  In an instant, Vader's own sword is 
lit.  Luke lunges, but Vader repels the blow.  Again Luke attacks, and 
the swords of the two combatants clash in battle.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

Leia, Lando, and Chewie, with Threepio on his back, march along, 
guarded by six stormtroopers.  The group reaches an intersection where 
Lobot and a dozen of Lando's guards stand at attention.

The guards immediately aim their weapons at the startled stormtroopers.  
Taking the stormtroopers' weapons from them, Lobot hands one to Leia 
and one to Lando.

				LANDO
		Well done.  Hold them in the 
		security tower - and keep it 
		quiet.  Move.

As Lando's guards quickly march the stormtroopers away, Lando begins to 
undo Chewie's binding.

				LEIA
		What do you think you're doing?

				LANDO
		We're getting out of here.

				THREEPIO
		I knew all along it had to be a 
		mistake.

Chewie turns on Lando and starts to choke him.

				LEIA
		Do you think that after what you 
		did to Han we're going to trust 
		you?

Lando tries to free himself from Chewie.

				LANDO
			(choking)
		I had no choice...

Chewie barks ferociously.

				THREEPIO
			(to Chewie)
		What are you doing?  Trust him, 
		trust him!

				LEIA
		Oh, so we understand, don't we, 
		Chewie?  He had no choice.

				LANDO
		I'm just trying to help...

				LEIA
		We don't need any of your help.

				LANDO
			(choking)
		H-a-a-a...

				LEIA
		What?

				THREEPIO
		It sounds like Han.

				LANDO
		There's still a chance to save 
		Han... I mean, at the East 
		Platform...

				LEIA
		Chewie.

Chewie finally releases Lando, who fights to get his breath back.

				THREEPIO
			(to Lando)
		I'm terribly sorry about all this. 
		After all, he's only a Wookiee.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - EAST LANDING PLATFORM - BOBA FETT'S SHIP

The two guards slide Han's encased body into an opening in the side of 
the bounty hunter's ship.  Boba Fett climb aboard on a ladder next to 
the cargo hold.

				BOBA FETT
		Put Captain Solo in the cargo 
		hold.

And with that, the door slams shut.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

Lando, Leia, and Chewie run down a Cloud City corridor when suddenly 
they spot Artoo who rushes toward them, beeping wildly.

				THREEPIO
		Artoo!  Artoo!  Where have you 
		been?

Chewie turns around to see the stubby droid, causing Threepio to be 
spun out of sight of his friend.

				THREEPIO
		Turn around, you wooly...! 
			(to Artoo)
		Hurry, hurry!  We're trying to 
		save Han from the bounty hunter!

Whistling frantically to Threepio, Artoo scoots along with the racing 
group.

				THREEPIO
		Well, at least your still in 
		one piece!  Look what happened to 
		me!

EXT. EAST LANDING PLATFORM - SIDE BAY

An elevator door slides open and Lando, Leia, and Chewbacca race for a 
large bay overlooking the East Landing Platform.

Just as they arrive, Boba Fett's ship takes off against a cloudy sunset 
sky.  

In wild anguish, Chewie howls and starts firing at the ship.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, no!  Chewie, they're behind 
		you!

A laser bolt explodes near the princess.  Everyone turns to see what 
Threepio has already spotted coming from the other direction; a squad 
of stormtroopers running toward them.  Artoo peeks out from the 
elevator.

Leia and Chewbacca start firing at the troopers as Lando makes a break 
for the elevator.  Laser bolts continue to explode around the princess 
and the Wookiee, but they refuse to budge.  Lando sticks his head out 
of the elevator and motions for the pair to run, but they barely 
notice.  They seem possessed, transported, as all the frustration of 
captivity and anger of loss pour through their death-dealing weapons.

But after a few moments, they begin to move through the rain of laser 
fire toward the elevator.  Once they are inside, the door slams shut 
and the stormtroopers race forward.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

Luke and Vader are locked in combat on the platform overlooking the 
chamber.  Their swords clash, the platform sways.  Luke aggressively 
drives Vader back, forcing Vader to use defensive tactics.

				VADER
		You have learned much, young one.

				LUKE
		You'll find I'm full of surprises.

Vader makes two quick moves, hooking Luke's sword out of his hand and 
sending it flying.  Another lightning move at Luke's feet forces the 
youth to jump back to protect himself.  Losing his balance, Luke rolls 
down the stairs to the circular carbon-freezing platform.  There he 
sprawls on the floor, surprised and shaken.  Just in time he looks up 
to see Vader, like a giant black bird, flying right at him.  Luke rolls 
away as Vader lands.  Crouching, Luke keeps his gaze steadily on his 
enemy.

				VADER
		Your destiny lies with me, 
		Skywalker.  Obi-Wan knew this to 
		be true.

				LUKE
		No!

Behind Luke the hydraulic elevator cover has opened noiselessly.  All 
the while, Luke slowly, cautiously moves back, away from the Dark Lord.

Suddenly, Vader attacks so forcefully that Luke loses his balance and 
falls back into the opening.  There is a rumble, and in an instant 
freezing steam rises to obscure Vader's vision.   Vader turns aside and 
deactivates his sword.

				VADER
		All to easy.  Perhaps you are not 
		as strong as the Emperor thought.

Through the steam behind Vader something blurs upward.  Liquid metal 
begins to pour into the pit.

Vader turns around - and then looks up.  He sees Luke, who has leaped 
fifteen feet straight up and who now hangs from some hoses on the 
carbonite outlet.

				VADER
		Impressive... most impressive.

Luke jumps down to the platform where he is separated from Vader by the 
steaming carbonite pit.  He raises his hand.  His sword, which had 
fallen on another part of the platform, swiftly jumps into his 
outstretched hand and is instantly ignited.  Vader immediately lights 
his sword as well.

				VADER
		Obi-Wan has taught you well.  You 
		have controlled your fear... now 
		release your anger.

Luke is more cautious, controlling his anger.  He begins to retreat as 
Vader goads him on.  As Luke takes a defensive position, he realizes he 
has been foolhardy.  A quick sword exchange and Luke forces Vader back.  
Another exchange and Vader retreats.  Luke presses forward.

				VADER
		Only your hatred can destroy me.

Breathing hard, Luke jumps in the air, turning a somersault over Vader.  
He lands on the floor and slashes at Vader as the room continues to 
fill up with steam.

Vader retreats before Luke's skillful sword.  Vader blocks the sword, 
but looses his balance and falls into the outer rim of pipes.  The 
energy Luke has used to stop Vader has brought him to the point of 
collapse.  Luke moves to the edge and looks down, but sees no sign of 
Vader.  He then deactivates his sword, hooks it on his belt, and lowers 
himself into the pit.

INT. CLOUD CITY - TUNNEL AND REACTOR CONTROL ROOM

Moving through a tunnellike entrance, Luke cautiously approaches the 
reactor room.  He ignites his sword and moves into the room and toward 
a large window as Vader enters.

Luke raises his sword and moves forward to attack.

Behind Luke a large piece of machinery detaches itself from the wall 
and comes smashing forward toward his back.  Luke turns and cuts it in 
half just as another machine comes hurtling at him.  Using the Force, 
Luke manages to deflect it and send it flying as if it had hit an 
invisible shield.

A large pipe detaches and comes flying at Luke.  He deflects it.  
Sparking wires pull out of the wall and begin to whip at the youth.  
Small tools and equipment come flying at him.  Bombardment from all 
sides, Luke does his best to deflect everything, but soon he is 
bloodied and bruised.  Finally, one machine glances off his and goes 
flying out the large window.  A fierce wind blows into the room, 
unmoving, stands the dark, rocklike figure of Vader.

A piece of machinery hits Luke and he is knocked out of the window.

INT. GANTRY - OUTSIDE CONTROL ROOM - REACTOR SHAFT

Luke falls onto the gantry, rolls, and hangs over the edge, holding his 
deactivated sword in hand.  He puts the sword on his belt and begins to 
scramble up.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR LEADING TO LANDING PLATFORM

Leia, Lando, Chewie and the droids come round a corner and head for the 
door to the landing platform.  They glimpse the Millennium Falcon for a 
moment before the door slams shut.  The group ducks into an alcove as 
stormtroopers arrive at the end of the corridor.  The troopers send a 
rain of laser bolts at the group.  Chewie returns their fire as Lando 
punches desperately at the door's control panel.

				LANDO
		The security codes has been changed!

				THREEPIO
		Artoo, you can tell the computer 
		to override the security system.

Threepio points to a computer socket on the control panel.  Artoo beeps 
and scoots toward it.  Lando meanwhile has connected up to the panel's 
intercom.

				LANDO
		Attention!  This is Lando
		Calrissian.  The Empire has takes 
		control of the city.  I advise 
		everyone to leave before more 
		Imperial troops arrive.

Artoo takes off a computer cover and sticks his computer arm into the 
socket.  Suddenly, a short beep turns into a wild scream.  Artoo's 
circuits light up, his head spins wildly, and smoke begins to seep out 
underneath him.  Quickly, Chewie pulls him away.

				LANDO
		This way.

Lando, Leia, Artoo, and Chewie flee down the corridor.  As he scoots 
along with them, Artoo sends some angry beeps Threepio's way.

				THREEPIO
		Don't blame me.  I'm an interpreter. 
		I'm not supposed to know a power 
		socket from a computer terminal.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

In a panic, Cloud City residents are trying to get out of the city.  
Some carry boxes, others packages.  They run, then change direction.  
Some are shooting at stormtroopers, others simply try to hide.

Other stormtroopers pursue Lando, Leia, and Chewie who are firing back 
at them.  Artoo works on another door to the landing platform while 
Threepio berates him for his seeming ineptitude.

				THREEPIO
		What are you talking about?  We're 
		not interested in the hyperdrive 
		on the Millennium Falcon.  It's 
		fixed!  Just open the door, you 
		stupid lump.

Chewie, Leia, and Lando retreat along the corridor.  A triumphant beep 
from Artoo - and the door snaps open.

				THREEPIO
			(to Artoo)
		I never doubted you for a second.
		Wonderful!

Artoo lays a cloud fog, obscuring everything, as the group dashes 
outside.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - CLOUD CITY - DUSK

They race for the Millennium Falcon as a battalion of stormtroopers 
reaches the main door.  Lando and Leia hold off the troops as the 
droids get on board with Chewie.  As Chewie bounds to the ship the 
Threepio on his back, Threepio hits his head on the top of the ramp.

				THREEPIO
		Ouch!  Oh!  Ah!  That hurt.  Bend 
		down, you thoughtless... Ow!

Chewie starts up the ship.  The giant engines begin to whine as Lando 
and Leia race up the ramp under a hail of laser fire.

				LANDO
		Leia!  Go!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CORRIDOR

Artoo drags the partially assembled Threepio down the corridor of the 
Falcon.

				THREEPIO
		I thought that hairy beast would 
		be the end of me.  Of course, I've 
		looked better.

Artoo beeps understandingly.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Chewie works the controls as Leia sits in Han's seat and Lando watches 
over their shoulders.  As Chewie pulls back on the throttle, the ship 
begins to move.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM - DUSK

The Millennium Falcon lifts gracefully into the twilight sky and roars 
away from the city.  Troops fire after it and TIE fighters take off in 
pursuit.

INT. GANTRY - OUTSIDE CONTROL ROOM - REACTOR SHAFT

Luke moves along the railing and up to the control room.

Vader lunges at him and Luke immediately raises his lit sword to meet 
Vader's.  Sparks fly as they duel, Vader gradually forcing Luke 
backward toward the gantry.

				VADER
		You are beaten.  It is useless 
		to resist.  Don't let yourself 
		be destroyed as Obi-Wan did.

Luke answers by rolling sideways and thrusting his sword at Vader so 
viciously that he nicks Vader on the shoulder.  The black armor sparks 
and smokes and Vader seems to be hurt, but immediately recovers.

Luke backs off along the narrow end of the gantry as Vader comes at 
him, slashing at the young Jedi with his sword.  Luke makes a quick 
move around the instrument complex attached to the end of the gantry.  
Vader's sword comes slashing down, cutting the complex loose; it begins 
to fall, then is caught by the rising wind and blown upward.

Luke glances at the instrument complex floating away.  At that instant, 
Vader's sword comes down across Luke's right forearm, cutting off his 
hand and sending his sword flying.  In great pain, Luke squeezes his 
forearm under his left armpit and moves back along the gantry to its 
extreme end.  Vader
follows.  The wind subsides.  Luke holds on.  There is nowhere else to 
go.  

				VADER
		There is no escape.  Don't make 
		me destroy you.  You do not yet 
		realize your importance.  You 
		have only begun to discover your 
		power.  Join me and I will complete 
		your training.  With our combined 
		strength, we can end this destructive 
		conflict and bring order to the 
		galaxy.

				LUKE
		I'll never join you!

				VADER
		If you only knew the power of the 
		dark side.  Obi-Wan never told 
		you what happened to your father.

				LUKE
		He told me enough!  It was you 
		who killed him.

				VADER
		No.  I am your father.

Shocked, Luke looks at Vader in utter disbelief.

				LUKE
		No.  No.  That's not true!  
		That's impossible!

				VADER
		Search your feelings.  You know 
		it to be true.

				LUKE
		No!  No!  No!

				VADER
		Luke.  You can destroy the Emperor.
		He has foreseen this.  It is your 
		destiny.  Join me, and together 
		we can rule the galaxy as father 
		and son.  Come with me.  It is the 
		only way.

Vader puts away his sword and holds his hand out to Luke.

A calm comes over Luke, and he makes a decision.  In the next instant 
he steps off the gantry platform into space.  The Dark Lord looks over 
the platform and sees Luke falling far below.  The wind begins to blow 
at Vader's cape and the torrent finally forces him back, away from the 
edge.  The wind soon fades and the wounded Jedi begins to drop fast, 
unable to grab onto anything to break his fall.

INT. REACTOR SHAFT

Suddenly Luke is sucked into an exhaust pipe in the side of the shaft.  
When Vader sees this, he turns and hurries off the platform.

INT. EXHAUST PIPE

Luke tumbles through the exhaust pipe.

He slides to the end of the slickly polished pipe and stops as his feet 
hit a circular grill and knock it open.  Luke claws at the surface of 
the pipe, trying to keep from sliding out into space.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY - WEATHER VANE - DUSK

Unable to hang onto the pipe, Luke tumbles out, emerging at the 
undermost part of Cloud City.  Reaching out desperately, he manages to 
grab onto on electronic weather vane.

				LUKE
		Ben... Ben, please!

Luke tries to pull himself up on the weather vane but slips back down.  
He hooks one of his legs around the fragile instruments.  All the 
while, a powerful current of air rushes out at him from the exhaust 
pipe.

				LUKE
		Ben.  Leia!

There is an ominous cracking sound from the base of the
weather vane and a piece breaks off, falling into the clouds far below.

				LUKE
		Hear me!  Leia!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Leia seems to be lost in a fog, her expression troubled.  Chewie is 
busy operating the ship.  Lando stands next to the Wookiee, watching a 
readout on the control panel.

				LEIA
		Luke... We've got to go back.

Chewie growls in surprise.

				LANDO
		What?

				LEIA
		I know where Luke is.

				LANDO
		But what about those fighter?

Chewie barks in agreement with Lando.

				LEIA
		Chewie, just do it.

				LANDO
		But what about Vader?

Chewie turns on Lando, the newcomer, with an ominous growl.

				LANDO
		All right, all right, all right.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - MILLENNIUM FALCON - DUSK

The Falcon makes a graceful banking turn back toward Cloud City.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM

Vader enters the landing platform and watches as the speck that is the 
Falcon disappears.  The wind blows at his cape.

He turns to two aides who are standing near the entrance to the landing 
platform.

				VADER
		Bring my shuttle.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY - WEATHER VANE

Nearly unconscious, Luke hangs upside-down on the weather vane as his 
body shifts in the wind.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY

The Falcon dives to the underside of the floating city.  Three TIE 
fighter close in on the starship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

Leia tries to remain calm.

				LANDO
			(pointing out the 
			 cockpit window)
		Look, someone's up there.

				LEIA
		It's Luke.  Chewie, slow down.
		Slow down and we'll get under him.
		Lando, open the top hatch.

Lando rushes out of the cockpit.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY - WEATHER VANE

Luke hangs by one arm from the crossbar of the weather vane.  He slips 
from the bar and grabs onto the pole of the vane as the Falcon banks 
toward him.  The Falcon positions itself under Luke as Lando moves up 
through the opening of the hatch.  Luke begins to slide and finally 
falls from the vane into space.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Out the cockpit window, Leia sees Luke falling from the bottom of the 
city.  The ship gains on him.

				LEIA
		Okay.  Easy, Chewie.

The Falcon closes in on Luke.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY

Three TIE fighters race toward the Falcon, firing away.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HATCH

The hatch pops open with a hiss of pressure.  Lando reaches out to help 
the battered warrior inside the ship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Flak bursts all around it as the Falcon banks away from the city.  Leia 
and Chewie struggle with the controls.

				LEIA
			(into intercom)
		Lando?

				LANDO
			(over intercom)
		Okay, let's go.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY

The Falcon races away.  It is closely followed by three TIE fighters, 
all of which keep up a heavy laser assault on the fleeing starship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Explosions erupt all around the cockpit, buffeting the ship wildly.  
Chewie howls as he frantically tries to control the ship.

Leia and Chewie turns to see Luke, bloody and battered, enter the 
cockpit supported by Lando.  Leia jumps up and hugs him while Chewie 
barks in joyous relief.

				LUKE
		Oh, Leia.

				LANDO
		All right, Chewie.  Let's go.

Leia helps Luke from the cockpit as another huge blast rocks the ship.

EXT. SPACE - CLOUD CITY - DAY

The Falcon, still followed by the three TIE fighters, races away from 
the cloud-covered city.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SLEEPING QUARTERS

Luke rests on a cot, his injured arm wrapped in a protective cuff.  
Leia gently wipes his face.  The ship lurches again.

				LEIA
		I'll be back.

She kisses him, then leaves the quarters.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

All over the ship muted alarm buzzers sound.  Lando anxiously watches 
the flashing lights on the control panel and hurriedly adjusts some 
switches.  Seated next to him, Chewie points out a new blip appearing 
on the panel.  Leia, watching over their shoulders, recognizes the 
shape.

				LEIA
		Star Destroyer.

				LANDO
		All right, Chewie.  Ready for 
		light-speed.

				LEIA
		If your people fixed the 
		hyperdrive.

Another explosion rocks the ship.  Leia notices as a green light on the 
panel next to her flashes on.

				LEIA
		All the coordinates are set.
		It's now or never.

Chewie barks in agreement.

				LANDO
		Punch it!

The Wookiee shrugs and pulls back on the light-speed throttle.  The 
sound of the ion engine changes...it is winding up.  Faces are tense, 
expectant.  But nothing happens, and the engine goes off.  Chewie lets 
out a frustrated howl.  The flak still violently rocks the ship.

				LANDO
		They told me they fixed it.  I 
		trusted them to fix it.  It's not 
		my fault!

Chewie gets up from his chair and starts out of the cockpit.  He gives 
Lando and angry shove as he storms past him.

EXT. SPACE

In the distance the TIE fighters continue their chase, still shooting 
lasers.  Vader's Star Destroyer moves behind them, determinedly 
following the Falcon.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Vader stands on the bridge looking out the window as Admiral Piett 
approaches him.

				PIETT
		They'll be in range of our 
		tractor beam in moments, my lord.

				VADER
		Did your men deactivate the 
		hyperdrive on the Millennium 
		Falcon?

				PIETT
		Yes, my lord.

				VADER
		Good.  Prepare the boarding party 
		and set your weapons for stun.

				PIETT
		Yes, my lord.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

Beeping while he works, Artoo is busy connecting some wires to Threepio 
who now has one leg attached. 

Chewie enters through the doorway, grunting to himself.

				THREEPIO
		Noisy brute.  Why don't we just 
		go into light-speed?

Artoo beeps in response.

				THREEPIO
		We can't?  How would you know the 
		hyperdrive is deactivated?

Artoo whistles knowingly.

				THREEPIO
		The city's central computer told 
		you?  Artoo-Detoo, you know better 
		than to trust a strange computer.
		Ouch!  Pay attention to what 
		you're doing!

Chewie is in the pit.  He is trying to loosen something with an 
enormous wrench.  Frustrated, he uses the wrench like a club and hits 
the panel...

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Leia and Lando, seated in front of the control panel, are suddenly 
sprayed by a shower of sparks.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Vader stands on the bridge, watching as the Millennium Falcon is chased 
by the TIE fighters.  As his Destroyer draws nearer, Vader's breathing 
gets slightly faster.

				VADER
		Luke.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SLEEPING QUARTERS

Luke realizes that Vader's ship is very near.  He feels resigned to his 
fate.  He senses that he is beaten, more emotionally than physically.

				LUKE
		Father.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

				VADER
		Son, come with me.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SLEEPING QUARTERS

				LUKE
			(moaning)
		Ben, why didn't you tell me?

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando and Leia are at the controls of the Falcon.  Meanwhile, in the 
ship's hold, Chewie continues to work frantically on the hyperdrive 
mechanism.

				LANDO
			(into intercom)
		Chewie!

EXT. SPACE

The Falcon races through space followed very closely by the TIE 
fighters and the huge Imperial Star Destroyer.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Luke enters the cockpit and looks out the window.  He is almost 
unconscious with pain and depression.

				LUKE
		It's Vader.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

				VADER
		Luke... it is your destiny.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

				LUKE
		Ben, why didn't you tell me?

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

				PIETT
		Alert all commands.  Ready for 
		the tractor beam.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD

Artoo races to a control panel and starts working on a circuit board.  
Furious, Threepio stands on one leg, yelling.

				THREEPIO
		Artoo, come back at once!  You 
		haven't finished with me yet!
		You don't know how to fix the 
		hyperdrive.  Chewbacca can do 
		it.  I'm standing here in pieces, 
		and you're having delusions of 
		grandeur!

Artoo moves a circuit on a control panel.  Suddenly, the control panel 
lights up.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Leia and Lando are thrown into their seats as the Millennium Falcon 
unexpectedly shoot into hyperspace.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD

The ship tilts up and Artoo topples into the pit on top of Chewie.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, you did it!

EXT. SPACE

The Falcon soars into infinity and away from the huge Star Destroyer 
which seems, by contrast, to stand still.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and another captain glance at Vader in terror.  Vader 
turns slowly and walks off the bridge, his hands held behind his back 
in a contemplative gesture.

EXT. SPACE - REBEL CRUISER

The Millennium Falcon is attached to a huge Rebel cruiser by a docking 
tube.  Rebel fighters move about the giant cruiser, and a Rebel 
transport ship hovers near the fleet.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando sits in the pilot's seat as he talks into the comlink.  Chewie 
busily throws a variety of switches in preparation for takeoff.

				LANDO
			(into comlink)
		Luke, we're ready for takeoff.

				LUKE
			(over comlink)
		Good luck, Lando

				LANDO
			(into comlink)
		When we find Jabba the Hut and 
		that bounty hunter, we'll contact 
		you.

INT. STAR CRUISER - MEDICAL CENTER

Luke speaking into the comlink as a medical droid works on his hand.  
Leia stands near him while Threepio and Artoo look out the window.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		I'll meet you at the rendezvous 
		point on Tatooine.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

				LANDO
			(into comlink)
		Princess, we'll find Han.  I 
		promise.

INT. STAR CRUISER - MEDICAL CENTER

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Chewie, I'll be waiting for your 
		signal.

Chewie's wail comes over the comlink.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Take care, you two.  May the 
		Force be with you.

Luke looks down at his hand.  A metalized type of bandage has been 
wrapped around his wrist.  The medical droid makes some adjustments in 
a tiny electronic unit, then pricks each one of Luke's fingers.

				LUKE
		Ow!

Luke wriggles his fingers, makes a fist, and relaxes it.  His hand is 
completely functional.

He gets up and walks over to Leia.  There is a new bond between them, a 
new understanding.  Leia is thinking about Han; Luke is thinking about 
his uncertain and newly complicated future.  Together they stand at the 
large window of the medical center looking out on the Rebel Star 
Cruiser and a dense, luminous galaxy swirling in space.

Luke puts his arm around Leia.  The droids stand next to them, and 
Threepio moves closer to Artoo putting his arm on him.  The group 
watches as the Millennium Falcon moves into view, makes a turn, and 
zooms away into space.

EXT. SPACE - REBEL STAR CRUISER

While Luke, Leia, and the droids stand, looking out the window of the 
star cruiser, two escort fighters join the large ship.  Slowly, the 
cruiser turns and moves away into space.

								DISSOLVE TO 

EXT. GALAXY - SPACE

END CREDITS FADE IN AND OUT OVER BACKGROUND

				THE END

RETURN 
OF THE 
JEDI

by
Lawrence Kasdan
&
George Lucas

From The Novel
by
George Lucas

Third Draft

Property of Lucasfilm Ltd.


Completion Date December 1, 1981

1    SPACE                                                           

The boundless heavens serve as a back-drop for the MAIN TITLE, followed 
by a ROLL-UP, which crawls into infinity.

Episode VI
RETURN OF THE JEDI

Luke Skywalker has returned to his home planet of Tatooine in an 
attempt to rescue his friend Han Solo from the clutches of thevile 
gangster Jabba the Hutt. Little does Luke know that the GALACTIC EMPIRE 
has secretly begun construction on a new armored space station even 
more powerful than the first dreaded Death Star. When completed, this 
ultimate weapon will spell certain doom for the small band of Rebels 
struggling to restore freedom to the galaxy...

PAN DOWN to reveal a monstrous half-completed Death Star, its massive 
superstructure curling away from the completed section like the arms of 
a giant octopus. Beyond, in benevolent contrast, floats the small, 
green moon of ENDOR.

An Imperial Star Destroyer moves overhead toward the massive armored 
space station, followed by two zipping TIE fighters. A small Imperial 
shuttle rockets from the main bay of the ship and hustles toward the 
Death Star.

2    INT IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT 
The shuttle captain makes contact with the Death Star.

SHUTTLE CAPTAIN
Command station, this is ST 321. Code Clearance Blue. We're starting 
our approach. Deactivate the security shield.

DEATH STAR CONTROLLER	(filtered VO)
The security deflector shield will be deactivated when we have 
confirmation of your code transmission. Stand by... You are clear to 
proceed.

SHUTTLE CAPTAIN
We're starting our approach.

3    INT DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Operators move about among the control panels. A SHIELD OPERATOR hits 
switches beside a large screen, on which is a display of the Death 
Star, the moon Endor, and a bright web delineating the invisible 
deflector shield.

A control officer rushes over to the shield operator.

OFFICER
Inform the commander that Lord Vader's shuttle has arrived.

OPERATOR
Yes, sir.

The control officer moves to a view port and watches as the Imperial 
shuttle lands in the massive docking bay. A squad of Imperial 
stormtroopers moves into formation before the craft.

4    INT DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY

The DEATH STAR COMMANDER, MOFF JERJERROD, a tall, confident technocrat, 
strides through the assembled troops to the base of the shuttle ramp. 
The troops snap to attention; many are uneasy about the new arrival. 
But the Death Star commander stands arrogantly tall.

The exit hatch of the shuttle opens with a WHOOSH, revealing only 
darkness. Then, heavy FOOTSTEPS AND MECHANICAL BREATHING. From this 
black void appears DARTH VADER, LORD OF THE SITH. Vader looks over the 
assemblage as he walks down the ramp.

JERJERROD
Lord Vader, this is an unexpected pleasure. We're honored by your 
presence.

VADER
You may dispense with the pleasantries, Commander. I'm here to put you 
back on
schedule.

The commander turns ashen and begins to shake.

JERJERROD
I assure you, Lord Vader, my men are working as fast as they can.

VADER
Perhaps I can find new ways to motivate them.

JERJERROD
I tell you, this station will be operational as planned.

VADER
The Emperor does not share your optimistic appraisal of the situation.

JERJERROD
But he asks the impossible. I need more men.

VADER
Then perhaps you can tell him when he arrives.

JERJERROD	 (aghast)
The Emperor's coming here?

VADER
That is correct, Commander. And he is most displeased with your 
apparent lack of progress.

JERJERROD
We shall double our efforts.

VADER
I hope so, Commander, for your sake. The Emperor is not as forgiving as 
I am.

5    EXT ROAD TO JABBA'S PALACE - TATOOINE

A lonely, windswept road meanders through the desolate Tatooine 
terrain. We HEAR a familiar BEEPING and a distinctive reply before 
catching sight of ARTOO-DETOO and SEE-THREEPIO, making their way along 
the road toward the ominous palace of Jabba the Hutt.

THREEPIO
Of course I'm worried. And you should be, too. Lando Calrissian and 
poor Chewbacca never returned from this awful place.

Artoo whistles timidly.

THREEPIO
Don't be so sure. If I told you half the things I've heard about this 
Jabba the Hutt, you'd probably short-circuit.

The two droids fearfully approach the massive gate to the palace.

THREEPIO
Artoo, are you sure this is the right place? I better knock, I suppose.

6    EXT JABBA'S PALACE - GATE 

Threepio looks around for some kind of signaling device, then timidly 
knocks on the iron door.

THREEPIO	 (instantly) 
There doesn't seem to be anyone there. Let's go back and tell Master 
Luke.

A small hatch in the middle of the door opens and a spidery mechanical 
arm, with a large electronic eyeball on the end, pops out and inspects 
the two droids.

STRANGE VOICE
Tee chuta hhat yudd!

THREEPIO
Goodness gracious me!

 Threepio points to Artoo, then to himself.

 THREEPIO
 Artoo Detoowha bo Seethreepiowha ey toota odd mischka Jabba du Hutt.

The eye looks from one robot to the other, there is a laugh then the 
eye zips back into the door. The hatch slams shut. Artoo beeps his 
concern.

THREEPIO
I don't think they're going to let us in, Artoo. We'd better go.

Artoo beeps his reluctance as Threepio turns to leave. Suddenly the 
massive door starts to rise with a horrific metallic SCREECH. The 
robots turn back and face an endless black cavity. The droids look at 
one another, afraid to enter.

Artoo starts forward into the gloom. Threepio rushes after his stubby 
companion. The door lowers noisily behind them.

THREEPIO 
Artoo, wait. Oh, dear! Artoo. Artoo, I really don't think we should 
rush into all this.

Artoo continues down the corridor, with Threepio following.

THREEPIO
Oh, Artoo!  Artoo, wait for me!

7    INT JABBA'S PALACE - HALLWAY

The door slams shut with a loud crash that echoes throughout the dark 
passageway. The frightened robots are met by two giant, green GAMORREAN 
GUARDS, who fall in behind them. Threepio glances quickly back at the 
two lumbering brutes, then back to Artoo. One guard grunts an order. 
Artoo beeps nervously.

THREEPIO
Just you deliver Master Luke's message and get us out of here. Oh my! 
Oh! Oh, no.

Walking toward them out of the darkness is BIB FORTUNA, a humanlike 
alien with long tentacles protruding from his skull.

BIB
Die Wanna Wanga!

THREEPIO
Oh, my! Die Wanna Wauaga. We -- we bring a message to your master, 
Jabba the Hutt.

Artoo lets out a series of quick beeps.

THREEPIO	 (cont)
...and a gift.
(thinks a moment, then to Artoo)
Gift, what gift?

Bib shakes his head negatively.

BIB
Nee Jabba no badda. Me chaade su goodie.

Bib holds out his hand toward Artoo and the tiny droid backs up a bit, 
letting out a protesting array of squeaks. Threepio turns to the 
strange-looking alien.

THREEPIO
He says that our instructions are to give it only to Jabba himself.

Bib thinks about this for a moment.

THREEPIO
I'm terribly sorry. I'm afraid he's ever so stubborn about these sort 
of things.

Bib gestures for the droids to follow.

BIB
Nudd Chaa.

The droids follow the tall, tentacled alien into the darkness, trailed 
by the two guards.

THREEPIO
Artoo, I have a bad feeling about this.

8    INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

The throne room is filled with the vilest, most grotesque CREATURES 
ever conceived in the universe. Artoo and Threepio seem very small as 
they pause in the doorway to the dimly lit chamber. Light shafts 
partially illuminate the drunken courtiers as Bib Fortuna crosses the 
room to the platform upon which rests the leader of this nauseating 
crowd: JABBA THE HUTT. The monarch of the galactic underworld is a 
repulsive blob of bloated fat with a maniacal grin. Chained to the 
horrible creature is the beautiful alien female dancer named OOLA. At 
the foot of the dais sits an obnoxious birdlike creature, SALACIOUS 
CRUMB. Bib whispers something in the slobbering degenerate's ear. Jabba 
laughs horribly, at the two terrified droids before him. Threepio bows 
politely.

THREEPIO
Good morning.

JABBA
Bo Shuda!

The robots jump forward to stand before the repulsive, loose-skinned 
villain.

THREEPIO
The message, Artoo, the message.

Artoo whistles, and a beam of light projects from his domed head, 
creating a hologram of LUKE on the floor. The image grows to over ten 
feet tall, and the young Jedi towers over the space gangsters.

LUKE
Greetings, Exalted One. Allow me to introduce myself. I am Luke 
Skywalker, Jedi Knight and friend to Captain Solo. I know that you are 
powerful, mighty Jabba, and that your anger with Solo must be equally 
powerful. I seek an audience with Your Greatness to bargain for Solo's 
life. 
(Jabba's crowd laughs) 
With your wisdom, I'm sure that we can work out an arrangement which 
will be mutually beneficial and enable us to avoid any unpleasant 
confrontation. As a token of my goodwill, I present to you a gift: 
these two droids.

Threepio is startled by this announcement.

THREEPIO
What did he say?

LUKE	 (cont)
... Both are hardworking and will serve you well.

THREEPIO
This can't be! Artoo, you're playing the wrong message.

Luke's hologram disappears.

Jabba laughs while Bib speaks to him in Huttese.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
There will be no bargain.

THREEPIO
We're doomed.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
I will not give up my favorite decoration. I like Captain Solo where he 
is.

Jabba laughs hideously and looks toward an alcove beside the throne. 
Hanging high, flat against the wall, exactly as we saw him last, is a 
carbonized HAN SOLO.

THREEPIO
Artoo, look! Captain Solo. And he's still frozen in carbonite.

9    INT DUNGEON CORRIDOR 

One of Jabba's Gamorrean guards marches Artoo and Threepio down a dank, 
shadowy passageway lined with holding cells. The cries of unspeakable 
creatures bounce off the cold stone walls. Occasionally a repulsive arm 
or tentacle grabs through the bars at the hapless droids. Artoo beeps 
pitifully.

THREEPIO
What could possibly have come over Master Luke. Is it something I did? 
He never expressed any unhappiness with my work. Oh! Oh! Hold it! Ohh!

A large tentacle wraps around Threepio's neck. He manages to break 
free, and they move on to a door at the end of the corridor.

10   INT BOILER ROOM

The door slides open, revealing a room filled with steam and noisy 
machinery. The guard motions them into the boiler room, where they are 
met by a tall, thin humanlike robot named EV-9D9. Behind the robot can 
be seen a torture rack pulling the legs off a screaming baby work 
droid. A second power droid is upside down.  As smoking branding irons 
are pressed into his feet, the stubby robot lets out an agonized 
electronic scream. Artoo and Threepio cringe as the guard grunts to EV-
9D9.

NINEDENINE
Ah, good. New acquisitions. You are a protocol droid, are you not?

THREEPIO
I am See-Threepio, human-cy...

NINEDENINE
Yes or no will do.

THREEPIO
Oh. Well, yes.

NINEDENINE
How many languages do you speak?

THREEPIO
I am fluent in over six million forms of communication, and can 
readily...

NINEDENINE
Splendid! We have been without an interpreter since our master got 
angry with our last protocol droid and disintegrated him.

THREEPIO
Disintegrated?

NINEDENINE	 (to a Gamorrean guard)
Guard! This protocol droid might be useful. Fit him with a restraining 
bolt and take him back to His Excellency's main audience chamber.

The guard shoves Threepio toward the door.

THREEPIO	 (disappearing)
Artoo, don't leave me! Ohhh!

Artoo lets out a plaintive cry as the door closes. Then he beeps 
angrily.

NINEDENINE
You're a feisty little one, but you'll soon learn some respect. I have 
need for you on the master's Sail Barge. And I think you'll fit in 
nicely.

The poor work droid in the background lets out another tortured 
electronic scream.

11   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

The court of Jabba the Hutt is in the midst of a drunken, raucous 
party. Sloppy, smelly monsters cheer and make rude noises as Oola and a 
fat female dancer perform in front of Jabba's throne.

Jabba leers at the dancers and with a lustful gleam in his eye beckons 
Oola to come and sit with him. She stops dancing and backs away, 
shaking her head. Jabba gets angry and points to a spot next to him.

JABBA
Da Eitha!

The lovely alien shakes her head again and screams.

OOLA
Na Chuba negatorie Na! Na! Natoota...

Jabba is furious and pulls her toward him, tugging on the chain.

JABBA
Boscka!

He pushes a button and, before the dancer can flee, a trap door in the 
floor springs open and swallows her up. As the door snaps shut, a 
muffled growl is followed by a hideous scream. Jabba and his monstrous 
friends laugh hysterically and several revelers hurry over to watch her 
fate through a grate.

Threepio cringes and glances wistfully at the carbonite form of Han 
Solo, but is immediately distracted by a gunshot offscreen.An 
unnatural quiet sweeps the boisterous gathering. On the far side of the 
room, the crush of debauchers moves aside to allow the approach of two 
guards followed by BOUSHH, an oddly cloaked bounty hunter, leading his 
captive, Han Solo's copilot, CHEWBACCA THE WOOKIEE.

Bib takes his place next to his disgusting master, and whispers into 
his ear, pointing at Chewbacca and the bounty hunter. Jabba listens 
intently, then the bounty hunter bows before the gangster and speaks a 
greeting in a strange, electronically processed tongue (Ubese).

BOUSHH	 (in Ubese subtitled)
I have come for the bounty on this Wookiee.

THREEPIO
Oh, no! Chewbacca!

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
At last we have the mighty Chewbacca.

Jabba lets out a loud, long, blood-curdling laugh and turns to 
Threepio, waving him closer. The reluctant droid obeys.

THREEPIO
Oh, uh, yes, uh, I am here, Your Worshipfulness. Uh... yes!

Jabba continues speaking, as Threepio nervously translates. Boushh 
listens, studying the dangerous creatures around the room. He notices 
BOBA FETT standing near the door.

THREEPIO
Oh. The illustrious Jabba bids you welcome and will gladly pay you the 
reward of twenty-five thousand.

BOUSHH	 (in Ubese subtitled)
I want fifty thousand. No less.

Jabba immediately flies into a rage, knocking the golden droid off the 
raised throne into a clattering heap on the floor. Boushh adjusts his 
weapon as Jabba raves in Huttese and Threepio struggles back onto the 
throne. The disheveled droid tries to compose himself.

THREEPIO
Uh, oh... but what, what did I say?
(to Boushh)
Uh, the mighty Jabba asks why he must pay fifty thousand.

The bounty hunter holds up a small silver ball in his hand. Threepio 
looks at it, then looks at Jabba, then back to the bounty hunter. The 
droid is very nervous and Jabba is getting very impatient.

THREEPIO
Because he's holding a thermal detonator.

The guards instantly back away, as do most of the other monsters in the 
room. Jabba stares at the silver ball, which begins to glow in the 
bounty hunter's hand. The room has fallen into a tense hush. Jabba 
stares at the bounty hunter malevolently until a sly grin creeps across 
his vast mouth and he begins to laugh.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
This bounty hunter is my kind of scum. Fearless and inventive.

Jabba continues.

THREEPIO
Jabba offers the sum of thirty-five. And I suggest you take it.

Bib and the other monsters study the bounty hunter and wait for his 
reaction. Boushh releases a switch on the thermal detonator and it goes 
dead.

BOUSHH
Zeebuss.

THREEPIO
He agrees!

The raucous crowd of monsters erupts in a symphony of cheers and 
applause as the party returns to its full noisy pitch. Chewbacca 
growls. As he is led away we spot LANDO CALRISSIAN, disguised as a 
skiff guard in a partial face mask. The band starts up and dancing 
girls take the center of the floor, to the hoots of the loudly 
appreciative creatures.

Boushh leans against a column with gunfighter cool and surveys the 
scene, his gaze stopping only when it connects with a glare from across 
the room. Boba Fett is watching him. Boushh shifts slightly, cradling 
his weapon lovingly. Boba Fett shifts with equally ominous arrogance.

12   INT DUNGEON CORRIDOR AND CELL

Gamorrean guards lead Chewie down the same hallway we saw before. When 
a tentacle reaches out at the Wookiee, Chewie's ferocious ROAR echoes 
against the walls and the tentacle snaps back into its cell in terror. 
It takes all the guards to hurl Chewie roughly into a cell, slamming 
the door behind him. Chewie lets out a pathetic howl and bangs on the 
iron door.

13   EXT JABBA'S PALACE

The palace is sitting in the light of the double sunset. On the road in 
front, a large toadlike creature flicks its tongue out for a desert 
rodent and burps in satisfaction.

14   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM - NIGHT

Silence. The room is deserted, only the awful debris of the alien 
celebration giving mute witness to the activity here before. Several 
drunk creatures lie unconscious around the room, snoring loudly.

A shadowy figure moves stealthily among the columns at the perimeter of 
the room and is revealed to be Boushh, the bounty hunter. He picks his 
way carefully through the snoring, drunken monsters.

Han Solo, the frozen space pirate, hangs spotlighted on the wall, his 
coffin-like case suspended by a force field. The bounty hunter 
deactivates the force field by flipping a control switch to one side of 
the coffin. The heavy case slowly lowers to the floor of the alcove.

Boushh steps up to the case, studying Han, and then turns to the 
controls on the side of the coffin. He activates a series of switches 
and, after one last hesitant look at Han, slides the de-carbonization 
lever. The case begins to emit a sound as the hard shell covering the 
contours of Han's face begins to melt away. The bounty hunter watches 
as Han's body is freed of its metallic coat and his forearms and hands, 
previously raised in reflexive protest, drop slackly to his side. His 
face muscles relax from their mask of horror. He appears quite dead.

Boushh's ugly helmet leans close to Han's face listening for the breath 
of life. Nothing. He waits. Han's eyes pop open with a start and he 
begins coughing. The bounty hunter steadies the staggering newborn.

BOUSHH
Just relax for a moment. You're free of the carbonite.

Han touches his face with his hand and moans.

BOUSHH
Shhh. You have hibernation sickness.

HAN
I can't see.

BOUSHH
Your eyesight will return in time.

HAN
Where am I?

BOUSHH
Jabba's palace.

HAN
Who are you?

The bounty hunter reaches up and lifts the helmet from his head, 
revealing the beautiful face of PRINCESS LEIA.

LEIA
Someone who loves you.

HAN
Leia!

LEIA
I gotta get you out of here.

As Leia helps her weakened lover to stand up, the relative quiet is 
pierced by an obscene HUTTESE CACKLE from the other side of the alcove.

HAN
What's that? I know that laugh.

The curtain on the far side of the alcove opens, revealing Jabba the 
Hutt, surrounded by Bib and other aliens. He laughs again, and his 
gross cronies join in a cacophony of alien glee.

HAN
Hey, Jabba. Look, Jabba, I was just on my way to pay you back, but I 
got a little sidetracked. It's not my fault.

Jabba laughs.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
It's too late for that, Solo. You may have been a good smuggler, but 
now you're Bantha fodder.

HAN
Look...

JABBA	 (cont Huttese subtitled)
Take him away!

The guards grab Han and start to lead him away.

HAN
Jabba... I'll pay you triple! You're throwing away a fortune here. 
Don't be a fool!

Han is dragged off, as Lando quickly moves forward and attempts to lead 
Leia away.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Bring her to me.

Jabba chuckles as Lando and a second guard drag the beautiful young 
princess toward him. Threepio peeks from behind a monster and quickly 
turns away in disgust.

LEIA
We have powerful friends. You're gonna regret this...

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
I'm sure.

Inexorably her lovely face moves to within a few inches of Jabba's ugly 
blob of a head, and Leia turns away in disgust.

LEIA
Ugh!

THREEPIO
Ohhh, I can't bear to watch.

15   INT DUNGEON CELL

The heavy metal door of the dungeon whines and slowly creaks open. A 
guard throws the blinded star captain into the dark cell and the door 
slams shut behind him, leaving only a thin sliver of light from a crack 
in the door. Han is trying to collect himself when suddenly a growl is 
heard from the far side of the cell. He jumps back against the cell 
door and listens.

HAN
Chewie? Chewie, is that you?

The shadowy figure lets out a crazy yell and races toward Han, lifting 
him off the ground with a big hug that carries them into the light, 
revealing Chewie.

HAN
Ah! Chew--Chewie!

The giant Wookiee barks with glee.

HAN
Wait. I can't see, pal. What's goin' on?

Chewie barks an excited blue streak.

HAN
Luke? Luke's crazy. He can't even take care of himself, much less 
rescue anybody.

Chewie barks a reply.

HAN
A...Jedi Knight? I--I'm out of it for a little while, everybody gets 
delusions of grandeur.

Chewie growls insistently. He holds Han to his chest and pets his head.

HAN
I'm all right, pal. I'm all right.

16   INT MAIN GATE AND HALL - JABBA'S PALACE

Noisily, the main gate lifts to flood the blackness with blinding LIGHT 
and reveal the silhouetted figure of LUKE SKYWALKER. He is clad in a 
robe similar to Ben's and wears neither pistol nor laser sword. Luke 
strides purposefully into the hallway. Two giant guards move to block 
Luke's path. Luke halts.

Luke raises his hand and points at the puzzled guards, who immediately 
lower their spears and fall back. The young Jedi lowers his hand and 
moves on down the hallway.

Bib Fortuna appears out of the gloom. He speaks to Luke as they 
approach each other, but Luke doesn't stop and Bib must reverse his 
direction and hurry alongside the young Jedi in order to carry on the 
conversation. Several other guards fall in behind them in the darkness.

LUKE
I must speak with Jabba.

Bib answers in Huttese, shaking his head in denial. Luke stops and 
stares at Bib; he raises his hand slightly.

LUKE
You will take me to Jabba now!

Bib turns in hypnotic response to Luke's command, and Luke follows him 
into the gloom.

LUKE
You serve your master well.

Bib responds.

LUKE
And you will be rewarded.

17   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

Jabba is asleep on his throne, with Leia lying in front of him. 
Salacious sits by Jabba's tail, watching it wriggle. Leia is now 
dressed in the skimpy costume of a dancing girl; a chain runs from a 
manacle/necklace at her throat to her new master, Jabba the Hutt. 
Threepio stands behind Jabba as Bib comes up to the gangster slug.

THREEPIO
At last! Master Luke's come to rescue me.

BIB
Master.

Jabba awakens with a start and Bib continues, in Huttese.

BIB
...Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
I told you not to admit him.

LUKE
I must be allowed to speak.

BIB	 (in Huttese subtitled)
He must be allowed to speak.

Jabba, furious, clobbers Bib and shoves him away.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
You weak-minded fool! He's using an old Jedi mind trick.

Luke stares hard at Jabba.

LUKE
You will bring Captain Solo and the Wookiee to me.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Your mind powers will not work on me, boy.

LUKE
Nevertheless, I'm taking Captain Solo and his friends. You can either 
profit by this... or be destroyed! It's your choice. But I warn you not 
to underestimate my powers.

Jabba's laugh is mean and loud. Threepio attempts to warn Luke about 
the pit.

THREEPIO
Master Luke, you're standing on...

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
There will be no bargain, young Jedi. I shall enjoy watching you die.

Luke reaches out, and a pistol jumps out of a guard's holster and flies 
into Luke's hand. The bewildered guard grabs for it as Jabba raises his 
hand.

JABBA
Bascka!

The floor suddenly drops away, sending Luke and the hapless guard into 
the pit. The pistol goes off, blasting a hole in the ceiling. Jabba 
laughs and his courtiers join in. Leia starts forward but is restrained 
by a human guard-- Lando, recognizable behind his mask. She looks at 
him and he shakes his head "no."

18   INT RANCOR PIT

Luke and the guard have dropped twenty-five feet from a chute into the 
dungeonlike cage. Luke gets to his feet as the guard yells hysterically 
for help. A crowd gathers up around the edge of the pit as the door in 
the side of the pit starts to RUMBLE open. The guard screams in panic. 
Luke looks calmly around for a means of escape.

THREEPIO
Oh, no! The Rancor!

At the side of the pit, an iron door rumbles upward and a giant, fanged 
RANCOR emerges. The guard runs to the side of the pit and tries 
futilely to scramble to the top. The hideous beast closes in on him.

The Rancor moves past Luke, and as the guard continues to scramble, the 
Rancor picks him up and pops him into its slavering jaws. A few 
screams, and the guard is swallowed with a gulp. The audience cheers 
and laughs at the guard's fate.

The monster turns and starts for Luke. The young Jedi dashes away just 
ahead of the monster's swipe at him, and picks up the long arm bone of 
an earlier victim. The monster grabs Luke and brings him up to his 
salivating mouth. At the last moment, Luke wedges the bone in the 
monster's mouth and is dropped to the floor. The monster bellows in 
rage and flails about, hitting the side of the pit, causing an 
avalanche.

The monster crushes the bone in its jaws and sees Luke, who squeezes 
into a crevice in the pit wall. Luke looks past the monster to the 
holding cave beyond. On the far side of the holding cave is a utility 
door--if only he can get to it. The Rancor spots Luke and reaches into 
the crevice for him. Luke grabs a large rock and raises it, smashing it 
down on the Rancor's finger.

19   HOLDING TUNNEL - RANCOR PIT

The Rancor lets out a loud howl as Luke makes a run for the holding 
cave. He reaches the door and pushes a button to open it. When he 
succeeds, he sees a heavy barred gate between him and safety. Beyond 
the gate two guards look up from their dinner. Luke turns to see the 
monster heading for him, and pulls with all his might on the gate. The 
guards move to the gate and start poking at the young Jedi with spears, 
laughing.

Luke crouches (against the wall) as the monster starts to reach for 
him. Suddenly he notices a main door control panel halfway up the wall. 
As the Rancor moves in for the kill, Luke picks up a skull from the 
cave floor and hurls it at the panel. The giant overhead door comes 
crashing down on the beast's head, squashing it like a sledgehammer on 
an egg.

A startled gasp is heard from the stunned court. There's consternation 
at this turn of events. Heads look to Jabba, who is actually turning 
red with anger. Leia cannot suppress her joy. Jabba utters harsh 
commands to his guards and they hurry off.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Bring me Solo and the Wookiee. They will all suffer for this outrage.

21   INT RANCOR PIT

The Rancor KEEPERS have come into the cage and are examining their dead 
beast. One of them breaks down and weeps. The other glares menacingly 
at Luke, who is unworried. Several guards rush into the holding tunnel 
and take Luke away.

22   INT THRONE ROOM

The crowd of creepy courtiers parts as Han and Chewie are brought into 
the throne room, and other guards drag Luke up the steps.

LUKE
Han!

HAN
Luke!

LUKE
Are you all right?

HAN
Fine. Together again, huh?

LUKE
Wouldn't miss it.

HAN
How are we doing?

LUKE
The same as always.

HAN
That bad, huh? Where's Leia?

Luke looks to Leia.

LEIA
I'm here.

Threepio is standing behind the grotesque gangster as he strokes Leia 
like a pet cat. Several of the guards, including Lando, bring Luke from 
the other side of the room. Boba is standing behind Jabba.

Threepio steps forward and translates for the captives.

THREEPIO
Oh, dear. His High Exaltedness, the great Jabba the Hutt, has decreed 
that you are to be terminated immediately.

HAN
Good, I hate long waits.

THREEPIO
You will therefore be taken to the Dune Sea and cast into the pit of 
Carkoon, the nesting place of the all-powerful Sarlacc.

HAN	 (to Luke)
Doesn't sound so bad.

THREEPIO
In his belly, you will find a new definition of pain and suffering, as 
you are slowly digested over a thousand years.

HAN
On second thought, let's pass on that, huh?

Chewie barks his agreement.

LUKE
You should have bargained, Jabba. That's the last mistake you'll ever 
make.

Jabba cackles evilly at this.

As the guards drag the prisoners from the throne room, a loud cheer 
rises from the crowd. Leia and Chewie exchange concerned looks, but 
Luke Skywalker, Jedi warrior, cannot suppress a smile.

23   EXT TATOOINE SEA - SKIFF

Jabba's huge SAIL BARGE moves above the desert surface accompanied by 
two smaller Skiffs. One of the skiffs glides close, revealing Luke, 
Han, and Chewie -- all in bonds -- surrounded by guards, one of whom is 
Lando in disguise.

HAN
I think my eyes are getting better. Instead of a big dark blur, I see a 
big light blur.

LUKE
There's nothing to see. I used to live here, you know.

HAN
You're gonna die here, you know. Convenient.

LUKE
Just stick close to Chewie and Lando. I've taken care of everything.

HAN
Oh... great!

24   INT BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

Jabba the Hutt rides like a sultan in the massive antigravity ship. His 
entire retinue is with him, drinking, eating, and having a good time. 
Leia is watching her friends in the skiff when the chain attached to 
her neck is pulled tight and Jabba tugs the scantily clad princess to 
him.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Soon you will learn to appreciate me.

Threepio wanders among the Sail Barge aliens, bumping into a smaller 
droid serving drinks, spilling them all over the place. The stubby 
droid lets out an angry series of beeps and whistles.

THREEPIO
Oh, I'm terribly sor... Artoo! What are you doing here?

Artoo beeps a quick reply.

THREEPIO
Well, I can see you're serving drinks, but this place is dangerous. 
They're going to execute Master Luke and, if we're not careful, us too!

Artoo whistles a singsong response.

THREEPIO
Hmm.  I wish I had your confidence.

25   EXT SARLACC PIT 

The convoy moves up over a huge sand pit. The Sail Barge stops to one 
side of the depression, as does the escort skiff. But the prisoner's 
skiff moves out directly over the center and hovers. At the bottom of 
the deep cone of sand is a repulsive, mucous-lined hole, surrounded by 
thousands of needle-sharp teeth. This is the SARLACC. A plank is 
extended from the edge of the prisoner's skiff. Guards release Luke's 
bonds and shove him out onto the plank above the Sarlacc's mouth.

26   EXT SAIL BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

Jabba and Leia are now by the rail, watching. Threepio leans forward 
and the slobbering villain mumbles something to him. As Threepio steps 
up to a comlink, Jabba raises his arm and the motley array of 
intergalactic pirates fall silent. Threepio's voice is amplified across 
loudspeakers.

THREEPIO
Victims of the almighty Sarlacc: His Excellency hopes that you will die 
honorably. But should any of you wish to beg for mercy, the great Jabba 
the Hutt will now listen to your pleas.

27   EXT SKIFF

Han steps forward arrogantly and begins to speak.

HAN
Threepio, you tell that slimy piece of... worm-ridden filth he'll get 
no such pleasure from us. Right?

Chewie growls his agreement.

LUKE
Jabba! This is your last chance. Free us or die.

Lando moves unobtrusively along the skiff as Luke shoots a quick look 
of conspiracy to him.

28   INT SAIL BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

The assembled monsters rock with mocking laughter as Artoo zips 
unnoticed up the ramp to the upper deck. Jabba's laughter subsides as 
he speaks into the comlink.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Move him into position.

Jabba makes a thumbs-down gesture. Leia looks worried.

29   EXT BARGE - UPPER DECK

Artoo appears from below and zips over to the rail facing the pit. 
Below, in the skiff, Luke is prodded by a guard to the edge of the 
plank over the gaping Sarlacc. Luke looks up at Artoo, then gives a 
jaunty salute: the signal the little droid has been waiting for. A flap 
opens in Artoo's domed head.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Put him in.

30   EXT SKIFF - PLANK

Luke is prodded and jumps off the plank to the cheers of the 
bloodthirsty spectators. But, before anyone can even perceive what is 
happening, he spins around and grabs the end of the plank by his 
fingertips. The plank bends wildly from his weight and catapults him 
skyward. In midair he does a complete flip and drops down on the end of 
the plank in the same spot he just vacated, but facing the skiff. He 
casually extends an open palm and -- his lightsaber, which Artoo has 
sent arcing toward him, drops into his hand.

With samurai speed, Luke ignites it and attacks the guard who prodded 
him off the plank, sending the hapless monster screaming overboard. The 
other guards swarm toward Luke. He wades into them, lightsaber 
flashing. Lando struggles with another guard at the back of the skiff.

31   EXT SARLACC PIT

A bewildered guard lands in the soft, sandy slope of the pit, and 
begins sliding. He claws desperately as a Sarlacc tentacle grabs him 
and pulls him screaming into the viscous mouth.

32   INT SAIL BARGE

Jabba watches this and explodes in rage. He barks commands, and the 
guards around him rush off to do his bidding. The scuzzy creatures 
watching the action from the window are in an uproar.

33   EXT SKIFF 

Luke knocks another guard off the skiff and into the waiting mouth of 
the Sarlacc. He starts to untie Chewie's bonds.

LUKE
Easy, Chewie.

At that moment, the deck gunmen on the barge unleash a series of blasts 
from a big cannon on the upper deck. Lando is tossed from the deck of 
the rocking skiff. He manages to grab a rope, and dangles desperately 
above the Sarlacc pit.

LANDO
Whoa! Whoa! Help!

34   EXT UPPER DECK - SAIL BARGE

With two swift strides, the dangerous Boba Fett ignites his rocket 
pack, leaps into the air, and flies from the barge down to the skiff.

35   EXT SKIFF

Boba lands on the skiff and starts to aim his laser gun at Luke, who 
has freed Han and Chewie from their bonds. But before Boba can fire, 
the young Jedi spins on him, lightsaber sweeping, and hacks the bounty 
hunter's gun in half.

Immediately, the skiff takes another direct hit from the barge's deck 
gun. Shards of skiff deck fly. Chewie and Han are thrown against the 
rail.

HAN
Chewie, you okay? Where is he?

The Wookiee is wounded and he howls in pain.

HAN
I'm okay, pal.

For a moment, Luke is distracted, and in that moment, Boba fires a 
cable out of his armored sleeve. Instantly, Luke is wrapped in a strong 
cable, his arms pinned against his side, his sword arm free only from 
the wrist down.  Luke bends his wrist so the lightsaber points straight 
up to reach the wire lasso and cuts through. Luke shrugs away the cable 
and stands free.

Another blast from the Barge's deck gun hits near Boba and he is 
knocked unconscious to the deck, next to where Lando is hanging.

LANDO
Han! Chewie?

HAN
Lando!

Luke is a little shaken but remains standing as a fusillade brackets 
him. The second skiff, loaded with guards firing their weapons, moves 
in on Luke fast. Luke leaps toward the incoming second skiff. The young 
Jedi leaps into the middle of the second skiff and begins decimating 
the guards from their midst.

Chewie, wounded, tries to lift himself as he barks directions to Han, 
guiding him toward a spear which has been dropped by one of the guards. 
Han searches the deck as Chewie barks directions; finally he grabs hold 
of the spear.

Boba Fett, badly shaken, rises from the deck. He looks over at the 
other skiff, where Luke is whipping a mass of guards. Boba raises his 
arm, and aims his lethal appendage.

Chewie barks desperately at Han.

HAN
Boba Fett?! Boba Fett?! Where?

The space pirate turns around blindly, and the long spear in his hand 
whacks squarely in the middle of Boba's rocket pack.

The impact of the swing causes the rocket pack to ignite. Boba blasts 
off, flying over the second skiff like a missile, smashing against the 
side of the huge Sail Barge and sliding away into the pit. He screams 
as his armored body makes its last flight past Lando and directly into 
the mucous mouth of the Sarlacc. The Sarlacc burps. Chewie growls a 
weak congratulations to Han.

36   INT SAIL BARGE

Leia turns from the spectacle outside, leaps onto Jabba's throne, and 
throws the chain that enslaves her over his head around his bulbous 
neck. Then she dives off the other side of the throne, pulling the 
chain violently in her grasp. Jabba's flaccid neck contracts beneath 
the tightening chain. His huge eyes bulge from their sockets and his 
scum-coated tongue flops out. The Exalted Hutt's huge tail spasms 
through its death throes and then slams down into final stillness. Leia 
struggles to free herself of her bondage.

37   EXT SKIFF

Luke continues to destroy the aliens on the guards' skiff, as Han 
extends his spear downward to Lando, who is still dangling precariously 
from a rope on the prisoner's skiff.

HAN
Lando, grab it!

LANDO
Lower it!

HAN
I'm trying!

A major hit from the barge deck gun knocks the skiff on its side. Han 
and almost everything else on board slides overboard. The rope breaks, 
and Lando falls to the side of the Sarlacc pit. Luckily, Han's foot 
catches on the skiff railing and he dangles above Lando and the pit. 
The wounded Wookiee holds onto the skiff for dear life as another hit 
from the deck gun rocks the skiff violently.

HAN
Whoa! Whoa! Grab me, Chewie! I'm slipping.

Chewie grabs hold of Han's feet, holding him upside down, as Han 
extends the spear toward Lando, who is clutching to the side of the 
pit.

HAN
Grab it! L--Lando. Grab!

Luke finishes off the last guard on the second skiff. He sees the deck 
gun blasting away at his helpless companions. Luke leaps from the 
skiff, across a chasm of air, to the sheer metallic side of the Sail 
Barge. Barely able to get a fingerhold, he begins a painful climb up 
the hull, when suddenly an ax smashes through a window an inch from his 
head. With Jedi agility, Luke grasps the wrist holding the ax and yanks 
the helpless guard through the broken window and into the deadly pit.

The injured Chewie is reaching over the rail for the dangling Han, who 
is in turn blindly reaching down toward the desperate Lando. The Baron 
has stopped his slippage down the sandy slope of the Sarlacc pit by 
lying very still. Every time he tries to reach for Han, the loose sand 
moves him closer to his final reward.

HAN
Grab it! Almost... You almost got it!

Another blast hits the front of the tilted skiff, causing Lando to let 
go of the spear.

LANDO
Hold it! Whoa!

Again Han extends the spear toward Lando.

HAN
Gently now. All... all right. Now easy, easy. Hold me, Chewie.

Lando screams. One of the Sarlacc's tentacles has wrapped tightly 
around his ankle, dragging him down the side of the pit.

HAN
Chewie! Chewie, give me the gun. Don't move, Lando.

LANDO
No, wait! I thought you were blind!

HAN
It's all right. Trust me. Don't move.

LANDO
All right! A little higher! Just a little higher!

Han adjusts his aim as Lando lowers his head, and the fuzzy-eyed pirate 
fires at the tentacle. Direct hit. The tentacle releases Lando, and 
Chewie starts to pull them on board the skiff.

HAN
Chewie, Pull us up! Come on! Okay... up, Chewie, up!

38   EXT UPPER DECK

The deck gunners have Chewie and the desperate dangling human chain in 
their gun sights when something up on deck commands their attention: 
Luke, standing before them like a pirate king, ignites his lightsaber. 
The deck gunners have barely reached for their pistols before the young 
Jedi has demolished them. Immediately, Luke turns to see two more 
gunners (who have been uncovering a giant gun at the end of the barge) 
racing for him, firing their laser pistols.

39   INT SAIL BARGE - OBSERVATION DECK

Leia is struggling against her chains in desperation as Artoo zips 
through the tumult of confused monsters to the rescue; the stubby 
little droid extends a small laser gun and blasts the chain apart.

LEIA
Come on. We gotta get out of here quick.

Artoo and Leia race for the exit, passing Threepio, who is kicking and 
screaming as Salacious Crumb, the reptilian monkey- monster picks out 
one of the golden droid's eyes.

THREEPIO
Not my eyes! Artoo, help! Quickly, Artoo. Oh! Ohhh! You beast!

Artoo zips over and zaps Salacious, sending him skyward with a scream, 
crashing into the rafters as Artoo, Leia, and Threepio (with his eye 
dangling from a wire) hurry off.

40   EXT UPPER DECK - SAIL BARGE

Luke is warding off laser blasts with his lightsaber, surrounded by 
guards and fighting like a demon. Leia emerges onto the deck as Luke 
turns to face another guard.

LUKE	 (to Leia)
Get the gun! Point it at the deck!

Leia turns toward the barge cannon, climbs on the platform, and swivels 
the gun around.

LUKE
Point it at the deck!

A laser blast hits Luke's mechanical hand and he bends over in pain, 
but manages to swing his lightsaber upward and take out the last of the 
guards. He looks at the wounded hand, which reveals the mechanism. He 
flexes the hand; it still works.

Near the rail of the upper deck, Artoo and Threepio steady themselves 
as Threepio gets ready to jump. Artoo beeps wildly.

THREEPIO
Artoo, where are we going? I couldn't possibly jump.

Artoo butts the golden droid over the edge and steps off himself, 
tumbling toward the sand.

Luke runs along the empty deck toward Leia and the barge gun, which she 
has brought around to point down at the deck.

LUKE
Come on!

Luke has hold on one of the rigging ropes from the mast. He gathers 
Leia in his other arm and kicks the trigger of the deck gun. The gun 
explodes into the deck as Luke and Leia swing out toward the skiff.

41   EXT SKIFF  

Han leans panting against the rail as Chewie helps Lando onto the deck. 
Luke and Leia land on the skiff with flair.

LUKE
Let's go! And don't forget the droids.

LANDO
We're on our way.

The Sail Barge is exploding in stages in the distance. Half of the huge 
craft is on fire.

42   EXT SAND DUNE

Threepio's legs stick straight up from the dune where he landed. Next 
to it, Artoo's periscope is the only thing above the sand. The skiff 
floats above them and two large electromagnets dangle down on a wire. 
With a loud CLANG, both droids are pulled 
from the sand.

43   EXT DUNE SEA

The little skiff skips around the burning Sail Barge, which continues 
its chain of explosions. As the skiff sails off across the desert, the 
barge settles to the sand and disappears in one final conflagration.

44   EXT DUNE SEA - LANDING AREA

A ferocious sandstorm blocks our view. Then, through the ROAR, we HEAR 
THE VOICES of our heroes. They emerge slowly from the veil of sand, 
pressing on against the wind. First come Artoo and Threepio, followed 
by Leia guiding Han, then Luke and Lando come into view, each 
supporting one side of the towering Chewbacca, who hobbles from his 
wound.

Soon, they can make out some large vague shapes in the blowing sand. It 
is the Millennium Falcon and, parked beside it, Luke's trusty X-wing 
and a two-seated Y-wing. They must shout to be heard.

HAN
I don't know. All I can see is a lot of blowing sand!

LEIA
That's all any of us can see.

HAN	 (blinking)
Then I guess I'm getting better.

As soon as the group huddles under the bulk of the Falcon, the wind 
dies down to something more describable as a severe weather condition. 
Threepio hits a switch, and the gang-plank lowers with a HUM.

HAN 	(turning to Luke)
I've got to hand it to you, kid, you were pretty good out there.

LUKE	 (shrugging it off)
I had a lot of help. Think nothing of it.

HAN
No, I'm thinking a lot about it. That carbon freeze was the closest 
thing to dead there is. And it wasn't just sleepin'. It was a big wide 
awake nothing!

Luke nods, as Chewie growls affectionately at the young Jedi warrior, 
mussing his hair like a proud uncle. And Leia warmly hugs him.

LUKE 	(moving to his ship)
I'll see you back at the fleet.

HAN
Why don't you leave that crate and come with us?

LUKE
I have a promise I have to keep first... to an old friend.

Luke and Artoo take off in their spacecraft.

HAN		
(looking dubiously at Lando, obviously remembering his friend's 
betrayal and subsequent aide)
Guess I owe you some thanks, too, Lando.

LANDO
Figured if I left you frozen like that you'd just give me bad luck the 
rest of my life, so I might as well get you unfrozen sooner or later.

LEIA
He means "You're welcome."

LANDO
Come on, let's get off this miserable dust ball.

44A  EXT SPACE ABOVE TATOOINE 

The desolate yellow planet fills the screen, Luke's X-wing appears and 
peels off to the left. A moment later, the FALCON appears as a dot and 
grows huge, to roar directly over the CAMERA.

45   INT X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke is at the controls, with Artoo attached behind him outside the 
canopy. Luke speaks into his comlink to the others, in the MILLENNIUM 
FALCON.

LUKE
I'll meet you back at the fleet.

LEIA	 (over comlink)
Hurry. The Alliance should be assembled by now.

LUKE
I will.

HAN	 (over comlink)
Hey, Luke, thanks. Thanks for comin' after me. Now I owe you one.

A message from Artoo appears on the small monitor screen in front of 
Luke. He smiles at the monitor and speaks to Artoo, as he pulls a black 
glove on to cover his wounded mechanical hand.

LUKE
That's right, Artoo. We're going to the Dagobah system. I have a 
promise to keep... to an old friend.

46   EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR AND ENDOR

A Super Star Destroyer and several ships of the Imperial Fleet rest in 
space above the half-completed Death Star and its green neighbor, 
Endor. Four squads of TIE fighters escort an Imperial shuttle toward 
the Death Star.

47   INT DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR TO DOCKING BAY

Lord Vader strides down the hallway, accompanied by a very nervous 
Death Star commander.

48   INT DOCKING BAY - DEATH STAR

Thousands of Imperial troops in tight formation fill the mammoth 
docking bay. Vader and the officer walk to the landing platform, where 
the shuttle is coming to rest.

The shuttle's ramp lowers and the Emperor's Royal Guards come out and 
create a lethal perimeter. The assembled troops move to rigid attention 
with a momentous SNAP.

Then, in the huge SILENCE which follows, the EMPEROR appears. He is a 
rather small, shriveled old man. His bent frame slowly makes its way 
down the ramp with the aid of a gnarled cane. He wears a hooded cloak 
similar to the one Ben wears, except that it is black. The Emperor's 
face is shrouded and difficult to see, except for his piercing yellow 
eyes. Commander Jerjerrod and Darth Vader kneel to him. The Supreme 
Ruler of the galaxy beckons to the Dark Lord.

EMPEROR	 (to Vader)
Rise, my friend.

Vader rises and falls in next to the Emperor as he slowly makes his way 
along the rows of troops. Jerjerrod and the other commanders stay 
kneeling until the Supreme Ruler and Vader, followed by several 
Imperial dignitaries, pass by; only then do they join in the 
procession.

VADER
The Death Star will be completed on schedule.

EMPEROR
You have done well, Lord Vader. And now I sense you wish to continue 
your search for young Skywalker.

VADER
Yes, my Master.

EMPEROR
Patience, my friend. In time he will seek you out. And when he does, 
you must bring him
before me. He has grown strong. Only together can we turn him to the 
dark side of the
Force.

VADER
As you wish.

EMPEROR
Everything is proceeding as I have foreseen.

He laughs to himself as they pass along the vast line of Imperial 
troops.

49   EXT YODA'S HOUSE - DAGOBAH

Once again, Artoo finds himself waiting around in the damp environs of 
the swamp planet, and he's none too happy about it. He beeps 
disconsolately to himself and turns to look at Yoda's cottage. Warm 
yellow light escapes the oddly shaped windows to fight the gloom.

50   INT YODA'S HOUSE

The tip of a walking stick taps hesitantly across the earthen floor of 
the cottage. Our view travels up the stick to the small green hand that 
clutches it, and then to the familiar face of YODA, THE JEDI MASTER. 
His manner is frail, and his voice, though cheerful, seems weaker.

YODA
Hmm. That face you make. Look I so old to young eyes?

Luke is sitting in a corner of the cramped space and, indeed, his look 
has been woeful. Caught, he tries to hide it.

LUKE
No... of course not.

YODA	 (tickled, chuckles)
I do, yes, I do!  Sick have I become. Old and weak. 
(Points a crooked finger)
When nine hundred years old you reach, look as good you will not. Hmm?

Yoda chuckles at this, coughs, and hobbles over toward his bed.

YODA
Soon will I rest. Yes, forever sleep. Earned it, I have.

Yoda sits himself on his bed, with great effort.

LUKE
Master Yoda, you can't die.

YODA
Strong am I with the Force... but not that strong! Twilight is upon me 
and soon night must fall. That is the way of things... the way of the 
Force.

LUKE
But I need your help. I've come back to complete the training.

YODA
No more training do you require. Already know you that which you need.

Yoda sighs, and lies back on his bed.

LUKE
Then I am a Jedi?

YODA	 (shakes his head)
Ohhh. Not yet. One thing remains: Vader. You must confront Vader. Then, 
only then, a Jedi will you be. And confront him you will.

Luke is in agony. He is silent for a long moment, screwing up his 
courage. Finally he is able to ask.

LUKE
Master Yoda... is Darth Vader my father?

Yoda's eyes are full of weariness and compassion. An odd, sad smile 
creases his face. He turns painfully on his side, away from Luke.

YODA
Mmm... rest I need. Yes... rest.

Luke watches him, each moment an eternity.

LUKE
Yoda, I must know.

YODA
Your father he is.

Luke reacts as if cut.

YODA
Told you, did he?

LUKE
Yes.

A new look of concern crosses Yoda's face.  He closes his eyes.

YODA
Unexpected this is, and unfortunate...

LUKE
Unfortunate that I know the truth?

Yoda opens his eyes again and studies the youth.

YODA		 (gathering all his strength)
No. Unfortunate that you rushed to face him... that incomplete was your 
training. Not
ready for the burden were you.

LUKE
Well, I'm sorry.

YODA
Remember, a Jedi's strength flows from the Force.  But beware.  Anger, 
fear, aggression.
The dark side are they.  Once you start down the dark path, forever 
will it dominate your
destiny.

He beckons the young Jedi closer to him.

YODA
Luke...Luke...Do not...Do not underestimate the powers of the Emperor, 
or suffer your father's fate, you will. Luke, when gone am I
(cough),
the last of the Jedi will you be. Luke, the Force runs strong in your 
family. Pass on what you have learned, Luke... 
(with great effort)
There is...another...Sky...Sky...walker.

He catches his breath. A shiver runs through the ancient green 
creature, and he dies. Luke stares at his dead master as he disappears 
in front of his eyes.

51   EXT DAGOBAH SWAMP - X-WING 

Luke wanders back to where his ship is sitting. Artoo beeps a greeting, 
but is ignored by his depressed master. Luke kneels down, begins to 
help Artoo with the ship, then stops and shakes his head dejectedly.

LUKE
I can't do it, Artoo. I can't go on alone.

BEN	 (OS)
Yoda will always be with you.

Luke looks up to see the shimmering image of BEN KENOBI.

LUKE
Obi-Wan! Why didn't you tell me?

The ghost of Ben Kenobi approaches him through the swamp.

LUKE
You told me Vader betrayed and murdered my father.

BEN
You father was seduced by the dark side of the Force. He ceased to be 
Anakin Skywalker
and became Darth Vader. When that happened, the good man who was your 
father was destroyed. So what I have told you was true... from a 
certain point of view.

LUKE	 (turning away, derisive)
A certain point of view!

BEN
Luke, you're going to find that many of the truths we cling to depend 
greatly on our own
point of view.

Luke is unresponsive. Ben studies him in silence for a moment.

BEN
I don't blame you for being angry. If I was wrong in what I did, it 
certainly wouldn't have been for the first time. You see, what happened 
to your father was my fault.

Ben pauses sadly.

BEN
Anakin was a good friend.

Luke turns with interest at this. As Ben speaks, Luke settles on a 
stump, mesmerized. Artoo comes over to offer his comforting presence.

BEN
When I first knew him, your father was already a great pilot. But I was 
amazed how strongly the Force was with him. I took it upon myself to 
train him as a Jedi. I thought that I could instruct him just as well 
as Yoda. I was wrong. My pride has had terrible consequences for the 
galaxy.

Luke is entranced.

LUKE
There's still good in him.

BEN
I also thought he could be turned back to the good side. It couldn't be 
done. He is more machine now than man. Twisted and evil.

LUKE
I can't do it, Ben.

BEN
You cannot escape your destiny.

LUKE
I tried to stop him once. I couldn't do it.

BEN
Vader humbled you when first you met him, Luke... but that experience 
was part of your training. It taught you, among other things, the value 
of patience. Had you not been so impatient to defeat Vader then, you 
could have finished your training here with Yoda. You would have been 
prepared.

LUKE
But I had to help my friends.

BEN	 (grinning at Luke's indignation)
And did you help them? It was they who had to save you. You achieved 
little by rushing back prematurely, I fear.

LUKE	 (with sadness)
I found out Darth Vader was my father.

BEN
To be a Jedi, Luke, you must confront and then go beyond the dark side 
- the side your father couldn't get past. Impatience is the easiest 
door - for you, like your father. Only, your father was seduced by what 
he found on the other side of the door, and you have held firm. You're 
no longer so reckless now, Luke. You are strong and patient. And now, 
you must face Darth Vader again!

LUKE
I can't kill my own father.

BEN
Then the Emperor has already won. You were our only hope.

LUKE
Yoda spoke of another.

BEN
The other he spoke of is your twin sister.

LUKE
But I have no sister.

BEN
Hmm. To protect you both from the Emperor, you were hidden from your 
father when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, if Anakin were 
to have any offspring, they would be a threat to him. That is the 
reason why your sister remains safely anonymous.

LUKE
Leia! Leia's my sister.

BEN
Your insight serves you well. Bury your feelings deep down, Luke. They 
do you credit.
But they could be made to serve the Emperor.

Luke looks into the distance, trying to comprehend all this.

BEN	 (continuing his narrative)
When your father left, he didn't know your mother was pregnant. Your 
mother and I knew he would find out eventually, but we wanted to keep 
you both as safe as possible, for as long as possible.  So I took you 
to live with my brother Owen on Tatooine... and your mother took Leia 
to live as the daughter of Senator Organa, on Alderaan.

Luke turns, and settles near Ben to hear the tale.

BEN	 (attempting to give solace with his words)
The Organa household was high-born and politically quite powerful in 
that system. Leia became a princess by virtue of lineage... no one knew 
she'd been adopted, of course. But it was a title without real power, 
since Alderaan had long been a democracy.  Even so, the family 
continued to be politically powerful, and Leia, following in her foster 
father's path, became a senator as well.  That's not all she became, of 
course... she became the leader of her cell in the Alliance against the 
corrupt Empire. And because she had diplomatic immunity, she was a 
vital link for getting information to the Rebel cause.  That's what she 
was doing when her path crossed yours... for her foster parents had 
always told her to contact me on Tatooine, if her troubles became 
desperate.

Luke is overwhelmed by the truth, and is suddenly protective of his 
sister.

LUKE
But you can't let her get involved now, Ben. Vader will destroy her.

BEN
She hasn't been trained in the ways of the Jedi the way you have, 
Luke... but the Force is strong with her, as it is with all of your 
family. There is no avoiding the battle. You must face and destroy 
Vader!

52   EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

The vast Rebel Fleet stretches as far as the eye can see. Overhead a 
dozen small Corellian battleships fly in formation. Fighters and 
battlecruisers surround the largest of the Rebel Star Cruisers, the 
HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE.

53   INT HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE - MAIN BRIEFING ROOM

Hundreds of Rebel commanders of all races and forms are assembled in 
the WAR ROOM. WEDGE is among them. In the center of the room is a 
holographic model depicting the half-completed Imperial Death Star, the 
nearby Moon of Endor, and the protecting deflector shield.

MON MOTHMA, the leader of the Alliance, enters the room. She is a stern 
but beautiful woman in her fifties. Conferring with her are several 
military leaders, including GENERAL MADINE and ADMIRAL ACKBAR (a 
salmon-colored Mon Calamari). Lando moves through the crowd until he 
finds Han and Chewie, standing next to Leia and the two droids.

Han peers at Lando's new insignia on his chest, and is amused.

HAN
Well, look at you, a general, huh?

 LANDO
 Oh, well, someone must have told them about my little maneuver at the 
battle of Taanab.

HAN	 (sarcastic)
Well, don't look at me, pal. I just said you were a fair pilot. I 
didn't know they were
lookin' for somebody to lead this crazy attack.

LANDO	 (smiling)
I'm surprised they didn't ask you to do it.

HAN
Well, who says they didn't.  But I ain't crazy. You're the respectable 
one, remember?

Mon Mothma signals for attention, and the room falls silent.

MON MOTHMA
The Emperor has made a critical error and the time for our attack has 
come.

This causes a stir. Mon Mothma turns to a holographic model of the 
Death Star, the Endor moon and the protecting deflector shield in the 
center of the room.

MON MOTHMA
The data brought to us by the Bothan spies pinpoints the exact location 
of the Emperor's new battle station. We also know that the weapon 
systems of this Death Star are not yet operational. With the Imperial 
Fleet spread throughout the galaxy in a vain effort to engage us, it is 
relatively unprotected. But most important of all, we've learned that 
the Emperor himself is personally overseeing the final stages of the 
construction of this Death Star.

A volley of spirited chatter erupts from the crowd. Han turns to Leia 
as Chewie barks his amazement.

MON MOTHMA	 (cont)
Many Bothans died to bring us this information. Admiral Ackbar, please.

Admiral Ackbar steps forward and points to the Death Star's force field 
and the Moon of Endor.

ACKBAR
You can see here the Death Star orbiting the forest Moon of Endor. 
Although the weapon
systems on this Death Star are not yet operational, the Death Star does 
have a strong defense mechanism. It is protected by an energy shield, 
which is generated from the nearby forest Moon of Endor. The shield 
must be deactivated if any attack is to be attempted. Once the shield 
is down, our cruisers will create a perimeter, while the fighters fly 
into the superstructure and attempt to knock out the main reactor.

There's a concerned murmur.

ACKBAR	 (cont)
General Calrissian has volunteered to lead the fighter attack

Han turns to Lando with a look of respect.

HAN
Good luck.

Lando nods his thanks.

HAN
You're gonna need it.

ACKBAR
General Madine.

Madine moves center stage.

GENERAL MADINE
We have stolen a small Imperial shuttle. Disguised as a cargo ship, and 
using a secret
Imperial code, a strike team will land on the moon and deactivate the 
shield generator.

The assembly begins to mumble among themselves.

THREEPIO
Sounds dangerous.

LEIA	 (to Han)
I wonder who they found to pull that off.

GENERAL MADINE
General Solo, is your strike team assembled?

Leia, startled, looks up at Han, surprise changing to admiration.

HAN
Uh, my team's ready. I don't have a command crew for the shuttle.

Chewbacca raises his hairy paw and volunteers.  Han looks up at him.

HAN
Well, it's gonna be rough, pal. I didn't want to speak for you.

Chewie waves that off with a huge GROWL.

HAN	 (smiles)
That's one.

LEIA
Uh, General... count me in.

VOICE	 (OS)
I'm with you, too!

They turn in that direction and peer into the crowd as there are more 
cheers. The commanders part, and there at the back stands Luke. Han and 
Leia are surprised and delighted.

Leia moves to Luke and embraces him warmly. She senses a change in him 
and looks into his eyes questioningly.

LEIA
 What is it?

LUKE	 (hesitant)
Ask me again sometime.

Han, Chewie, and Lando crowd around Luke as the assembly breaks up.

HAN
Luke.

LUKE
Hi, Han... Chewie.

Artoo beeps a singsong observation to a worried Threepio.

 THREEPIO
"Exciting" is hardly the word I would use.

54   INT HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE - MAIN DOCKING BAY

The Millennium Falcon rests beyond the stolen IMPERIAL SHUTTLE, which 
looks anomalous among all the Rebel ships in the vast docking bay. 
Chewie barks a final farewell to Lando and leads Artoo and Threepio up 
the shuttle, crowded now with the Rebel strike team loading weapons and 
supplies. Lando turns to face Han. Luke and Leia have said their good-
byes and start up the ramp.

HAN
Look. I want you to take her. I mean it. Take her. You need all the 
help you can get. She's
the fastest ship in the fleet.

LANDO
All right, old buddy. You know, I know what she means to you. I'll take 
good care of her.
She-she won't get a scratch. All right?

HAN	 (looks at him warmly)
Right. I got your promise now. Not a scratch.

LANDO
Look, would you get going, you pirate.

Han and Lando pause, then exchange salutes.

LANDO
Good luck.

HAN
You, too.

Han goes up the ramp. Lando watches him go and then slowly turns away.

55   INT IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

Luke is working on a back control panel as Han comes in and takes the 
pilot's seat. Chewie, in the seat next to him, is trying to figure out 
all the Imperial controls.

HAN
You got her warmed?

LUKE
Yeah, she's comin' up.

Chewie growls a complaint.

HAN
No. I don't think the Empire had Wookiees in mind when they designed 
her, Chewie.

Leia comes in from the hold and takes her seat near Luke.

Chewie barks and hits some switches. Han's glance has stuck on 
something out the window: the Millennium Falcon. Leia nudges him 
gently.

LEIA
Hey, are you awake?

HAN
Yeah, I just got a funny feeling. Like I'm not gonna see her again.

Chewie, hearing this, stops his activity and looks longingly out at the 
Falcon, too. Leia puts a hand on Han's shoulder.

LEIA	 (softly)
Come on, General, let's move.

Han snaps back to life.

HAN
Right. Chewie, let's see what this piece of junk can do. Ready, 
everybody?

LUKE
All set.

THREEPIO
Here we go again.

HAN
All right, hang on.

56   EXT SPACE - THE REBEL FLEET

The stolen Imperial shuttle leaves the main docking bay of the 
Headquarters Frigate, lowers its wings into flight position, and zooms 
off into space.

57   INT EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

The converted control room is dimly lit, except for a pool of light at 
the far end. There the Emperor sits in an elaborate control chair 
before a large window which looks out across the half-completed Death 
Star to the giant green moon of Endor.

Darth Vader, standing with other members of the Imperial council, 
cautiously approaches his master. The ruler's back is to Vader. After 
several tense moments, the Emperor's chair rotates around to face him.

VADER
What is thy bidding, my Master?

EMPEROR
Send the fleet to the far side of Endor. There it will stay until 
called for.

VADER
What of the reports of the Rebel fleet massing near Sullust?

EMPEROR
It is of no concern. Soon the Rebellion will be crushed and young 
Skywalker will be one of us! Your work here is finished, my friend. Go 
out to the command ship and await my orders.

VADER
Yes, my Master.

Vader bows, then turns and exits the throne room as the Emperor walks 
toward the waiting council members.

58   EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR - MOON

There is a great deal of Imperial traffic in the area as construction 
proceeds on the Death Star. Transports, TIE fighters, and a few Star 
Destroyers move about. Now the huge Super Star Destroyer announces 
itself with a low roar and soon fills the frame.

59   INT STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

Han looks back at Luke and Leia as Chewie flips several switches. 
Through the viewscreen, the Death Star and the huge Super Star 
Destroyer can be seen.

HAN
If they don't go for this, we're gonna have to get outta here pretty 
quick, Chewie.

Chewie growls his agreement.

CONTROLLER	 (over radio)
We have you on our screen now. Please identify.

HAN
Shuttle Tydirium requesting deactivation of the deflector shield.

CONTROLLER	 (over radio)
Shuttle Tydirium, transmit the clearance code for shield passage.

HAN
Transmission commencing.

Leia and Chewbacca listen tensely as the sound of a high speed 
transmission begins.

LEIA
Now we find out if that code is worth the price we paid.

HAN
It'll work. It'll work.

Chewie whines nervously. Luke stares at the Huge Super Star Destroyer 
that looms ever larger before them.

LUKE
Vader's on that ship.

HAN
Now don't get jittery, Luke. There are a lot of command ships. Keep 
your distance though, Chewie, but don't look like you're trying to keep 
your distance.

Chewie barks a question.

HAN
I don't know.  Fly casual.

LUKE
I'm endangering the mission. I shouldn't have come.

HAN
It's your imagination, kid. Come on. Let's keep a little optimism here.

Chewie barks his worries as the Super Star Destroyer grows larger out 
the window.

60   INT VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Lord Vader stands, back to us, staring out a window at the Death Star. 
Now, some vibration felt only by him causes him to turn. After a moment 
of stillness, he walks down the row of controllers to where ADMIRAL 
PIETT is leaning over the tracking screen of the controller we've seen 
earlier. Piett straightens at Vader's approach.

VADER
Where is that shuttle going?

PIETT	 (into comlink)
Shuttle Tydirium, what is your cargo and destination?

PILOT VOICE    (HAN)   (filtered)
Parts and technical crew for the forest moon.

The Bridge Commander looks to Vader for a reaction.

VADER
Do they have a code clearance?

PIETT
It's an older code, sir, but it checks out. I was about to clear them.

Vader looks upward, as he senses Luke's presence.

PIETT
Shall I hold them?

VADER
No. Leave them to me. I will deal with them myself.

PIETT	 (surprised)
As you wish, my lord.
(to controller)
Carry on.

Piett nods at controller, who switches on his comlink.

61   INT STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

The group waits tensely.

HAN
They're not goin' for it, Chewie.

CONTROLLER	 (filtered)
Shuttle Tydirium, deactivation of the shield will commence immediately. 
Follow your
present course.

Everyone breaths a sigh of relief. Everyone but Luke, who looks 
worried. Chewie barks.

HAN
Okay! I told you it was gonna work. No problem.

62   EXT SPACE - STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - ENDOR

The stolen Imperial shuttle moves off toward the green Sanctuary Moon.

63   EXT FOREST LANDING SITE - ENDOR

The stolen Imperial shuttle sits in a clearing of the moon's dark, 
primeval forest, dwarfed by the ancient towering trees.

On an adjacent hill, the helmeted Rebel contingent makes its way up a 
steep trail. Leia and Han are slightly ahead of Chewie and Luke. The 
troops of the strike-team squad follow, with Artoo and Threepio 
bringing up the rear. Artoo beeps.

Up ahead, Chewie and Leia reach a crest in the hill and drop suddenly 
to the ground, signaling the rest of the group to stop. Han and Luke 
crawl up to take a look.

THREEPIO
Oh, I told you it was dangerous here.

THEIR POV. Not far below them, two IMPERIAL SCOUTS are wandering 
through bushes in the valley below. Their two ROCKET BIKES are parked 
nearby.

LEIA
Shall we try and go around?

HAN
It'll take time. This whole party'll be for nothing if they see us.

Leia motions for the squad to stay put, then she, Han, Luke and Chewie 
start quietly down.

64   EXT FOREST CLEARING - CAMPSITE

The four friends make their way to the edge of the clearing not far 
from the two Imperial scouts.

HAN
Chewie and I will take care of this. You stay here.

LUKE
Quietly, there might be more of them out there.

HAN	 (grins)
Hey... it's me.

Han and Chewie turn and start through the bushes toward the scouts. 
Luke and Leia exchange smiles.

Han sneaks up behind one of the scouts, steps on a twig and the scout 
whirls, knocking Han into a tree. The scout shouts for his companion.

SCOUT #1
Go for help! Go!

The second scout jumps on his speeder bike and takes off, but Chewie 
gets off a shot on his crossbow laser weapon, causing the scout to 
crash into a tree. Han and Scout #1 are in a rousing fistfight.

LUKE	 (sarcastic)
Great. Come on.

Luke starts for the scuffle, followed by Leia with her laser pistol 
drawn. As they run through the bushes, Leia stops and points to where 
two more scouts are sitting on their speeder bikes, with an unoccupied 
bike parked nearby.

LEIA
Over there! Two more of them!

LUKE
I see them. Wait, Leia!

But Leia doesn't hear him and races for the remaining speeder bike. She 
starts it up and takes off as Luke jumps on the bike behind her.

LUKE	 (pointing to the controls)
Quick! Jam their comlink. Center switch!

Luke and Leia speed into the dense foliage in hot pursuit, barely 
avoiding two huge trees.

HAN
Hey, wait! Ahhh!

He flips the remaining scout to the ground.

65   EXT FOREST - THE BIKE CHASE

The two fleeing Imperial scouts have a good lead as Luke and Leia 
pursue through the giant trees at 200 miles an hour, the fire from 
their bike's laser cannon hitting harmlessly near the moving targets.

LUKE
Move closer!

Leia guns it, closing the gap, as the two scouts recklessly veer 
through a narrow gap in the trees. One of the bikes SCRAPES a tree, 
slowing the scout.

LUKE
Get alongside that one!

Leia pulls her speeder bike up so close to the scout's bike that their 
steering vanes SCRAPE noisily. Luke leaps from his bike to the back of 
the scout's, grabs the Imperial warrior around the neck, and flips him 
off the bike, into a thick tree trunk. Luke gains control of the bike 
and follows Leia, who has pulled ahead. They tear off after the 
remaining scout.

LUKE
Get him!

The speeding chase passes TWO MORE IMPERIAL SCOUTS. These two swing 
into pursuit, chasing Luke and Leia, firing away with their laser 
cannon. The two Rebels look behind them just as Luke's bike takes a 
glancing hit.

LUKE	 (indicating the one ahead)
Keep on that one! I'll take these two!

With Leia shooting ahead, Luke suddenly slams his steering vanes into 
the braking mode. Luke's bike is a blur to the two pursuing scouts as 
they zip by him on either side. Luke slams his bike into forward and 
starts firing away, having switched places with his pursuers in a 
manner of seconds. Luke's aim is good and one scout's bike is blasted 
out of control. It explodes against a tree trunk.

The scout's cohort takes one glance back at the flash and shifts into 
turbo drive, going even faster. Luke keeps on his tail.

FAR AHEAD, Leia and the first scout are doing a highspeed slalom 
through the death-dealing trunks. Now Leia aims her bike skyward and 
rises out of sight.

The scout turns in confusion, unable to see his pursuer. Suddenly, Leia 
dives down upon him from above, cannon blasting. The scout's bike takes 
a glancing hit.

Leia moves in alongside him. The scout eyes her beside him, reaches 
down, and pulls out a handgun. Before Leia can react, the scout has 
blasted her bike, sending it out of control. Leia dives off as her bike 
explodes against a tree. The happy scout looks back at the explosion. 
But when he turns forward again, he is on a collision course with a 
giant fallen tree. He hits his brakes to no avail and disappears in a 
conflagration.

ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST: Luke and the last remaining scout continue 
their weaving chase through the trees. Now Luke moves up close. The 
scout responds by slamming his bike into Luke's. A fallen tree forms a 
bridge across their path. The scout zips under. Luke goes over the top 
and crashes his bike down on the scout's. Both riders look ahead - a 
wide trunk looms directly in Luke's path, but the scout's bike beside 
him makes it almost impossible for him to avoid it. Luke banks with all 
his might, leaning almost horizontal over the scout's bike, and is able 
to make it by, just clipping the tree. When he straightens, he and the 
scout discover that their two bikes have locked front vanes and are 
moving as one.

Another big tree looms in Luke's path. He reacts instinctively and 
dives off his bike. The two bikes come apart a second before Luke's 
explodes against a tree. The scout sweeps out and circles back to find 
Luke.

Luke rises from the undergrowth as the scout bears down on him and 
opens fire with his laser cannon. Luke ignites his laser sword and 
begins deflecting the bolts. The scout's bike keeps coming and it 
appears that in a second it will cut Luke in half. At the last instant, 
Luke steps aside and chops off the bike's control vanes with one mighty 
slash. The scout's bike begins to shudder, then, pitching and rolling, 
it rises up to slam directly into a tree in a giant ball of fire.

66   EXT SCOUT CAMPSITE - FOREST

Han, Chewie, and the droids, along with the rest of the squad, wait 
anxiously in the clearing. Artoo's radar screen sticks out of his domed 
head and revolves, scanning the forest. He beeps.

THREEPIO
Oh, General Solo, somebody's coming. Oh!

Han, Chewie, and the rest of the squad raise their weapons.

Luke steps out of the foliage to find the weapons trained on him. He's 
too tired to care. He plops himself down on a boulder and looks around.

HAN
Luke! Where's Leia?

LUKE	 (concerned)
What? She didn't come back?

HAN
I thought she was with you.

LUKE
We got separated.

Luke and Han exchange a silent, grim look. Luke gets up wearily.

LUKE
Hey, we better go look for her.

Han nods, and signals to a Rebel officer.

HAN
Take the squad ahead.  We'll meet at the shield generator at 0300.

LUKE
Come on, Artoo.  We'll need your scanners.

Luke, Chewie, Han, and the droids move off in one direction as the 
squad proceeds in another.

THREEPIO
Don't worry, Master Luke.  We know what to do.

They move off into the woods.

THREEPIO	 (to Artoo)
And you said it was pretty here. Ugh!

67   EXT FOREST CLEARING - LEIA'S CRASH SITE

A strange little furry face with huge black eyes comes slowly into 
view. The creature is an EWOK, by the name of WICKET. He seems somewhat 
puzzled, and prods Leia with a spear. The princess groans; this 
frightens the stubby ball of fuzz and he prods her again. Leia sits up 
and stares at the three-foot-high Ewok. She tries to figure out where 
she is and what has happened. Her clothes are torn; she's bruised and 
disheveled.

The Ewok jumps up and grabs a four-foot-long spear, which he holds in a 
defensive position. Leia watches him as he circles warily and begins 
poking her with the sharp point of the spear.

LEIA
Cut it out!

She stands up, and the Ewok quickly backs away.

LEIA
I'm not gonna hurt you.

Leia looks around at the dense forest, and at the charred remains of 
her speeder bike, then sits down, with a sigh, on a fallen log.

LEIA
Well, looks like I'm stuck here. Trouble is, I don't know where here 
is.

She puts her head in her hands to rub away some of the soreness from 
her fall. She looks over at the watchful little Ewok and pats the log 
beside her.

LEIA
Well, maybe you can help me. Come on, sit down.

Wicket holds his spear up warily and growls at her like a puppy. Leia 
pats the log again.

LEIA
I promise I won't hurt you. Now come here.

More growls and squeaks from the little bear creature.

LEIA
All right. You want something to eat?

She takes a scrap of food out of her pocket and offers it to him. 
Wicket takes a step backward, then cocks his head and moves cautiously 
toward Leia, chattering in his squeaky Ewok language.

LEIA
That's right. Come on. Hmmm?

Sniffing the food curiously, the Ewok comes toward Leia and sits on the 
log beside her. She takes off her helmet, and the little creature jumps 
back, startled again. He runs along the log, pointing his spear at her 
and chattering a blue streak. Leia holds out the helmet to him.

LEIA
Look, it's a hat. It's not gonna hurt you. Look. You're a jittery 
little thing, aren't you?

Reassured, Wicket lowers his spear and climbs back on the log, coming 
to investigate the helmet. Suddenly his ears perk up and he begins to 
sniff the air. He looks around warily, whispering some Ewokese warning 
to Leia.

LEIA
What is it?

Suddenly a laser bolt comes out of the foliage and explodes on the log 
next to Leia. Leia and Wicket both roll backwards off the log, hiding 
behind it. Leia holds her own laser gun ready, while Wicket disappears 
underneath the log. Another shot, and still no sight of anyone in the 
forest. Then Leia senses something and turns to find a large IMPERIAL 
SCOUT standing over her with his weapon pointed at her head. He reaches 
out his hand for her weapon.

SCOUT #l
Freeze!  Come on, get up!

She hands the weapon over, as a second scout emerges from the foliage 
in front of the log.

SCOUT #1
Go get your ride and take her back to base.

SCOUT #2
Yes, sir.

The second scout starts toward his bike, as Wicket, crouched under the 
log, extends his spear and hits the first scout on the leg. The scout 
jumps and lets out an exclamation, and looks down at Wicket, puzzled. 
Leia grabs a branch and knocks him out. She dives for his laser pistol, 
and the second scout, now on his bike, takes off. Leia fires away and 
hits the escaping bike, causing it to crash into the first scout's 
bike, which flies end over end and explodes. The forest is quiet once 
more. Wicket pokes his fuzzy head up from behind the log and regards 
Leia withnew respect. He mumbles his awe. Leia hurries over, looking 
around all the time, and motions the chubby little creature into the 
dense foliage.

LEIA
Come on, let's get outta here.

As they move into the foliage, Wicket takes the lead. He shrieks and 
tugs at Leia to follow him.

68   INT DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR TO EMPEROR'S TOWER

Darth Vader walks down the corridor to the Emperor's Tower and private 
elevator. The Emperor's private guard steps in Vader's path.

GUARD
Halt! The Emperor does not wish to be disturbed at the moment.

VADER        
(raising his gloved hand to the two guards and choking them with the 
Force)
The Emperor will see me, now!

GUARD
(repeating Vader's command)
The Emperor will see you, now.

69   INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Two red Imperial Guards stand watch at the elevator as the door opens 
to reveal Vader. Vader enters the eerie, foreboding throne room. It 
appears to be empty. His footsteps echo as he approaches the throne. He 
waits, absolutely still. The Emperor sits with his back to the Dark 
Lord.

EMPEROR
I told you to remain on the command ship.

VADER
A small Rebel force has penetrated the shield and landed on Endor.

EMPEROR	 (no surprise)
Yes, I know.

VADER	 (after a beat)
My son is with them.

EMPEROR	 (very cool)
Are you sure?

VADER
I have felt him, my Master.

EMPEROR
Strange, that I have not. I wonder if your feelings on this matter are 
clear, Lord
Vader.

Vader knows what is being asked.

VADER
They are clear, my Master.

EMPEROR
Then you must go to the Sanctuary Moon and wait for them.

VADER	 (skeptical)
He will come to me?

EMPEROR
I have foreseen it. His compassion for you will be his undoing. He will 
come to you and
then you will bring him before me.

VADER	 (bows)
As you wish.

The Dark Lord strides out of the throne room.

70   EXT FOREST CLEARING - LEIA'S CRASH SITE

Han, Luke, Chewie, and the two droids are spread out as they move 
through the heavy foliage near the clearing where we last saw Leia. 
Luke finds Leia's helmet, picks it up with an expression of concern.

HAN	 (OS)
Luke! Luke!

Luke runs with the helmet to where Han has found the charred wreckage 
of a speeder bike in the grass.

THREEPIO
Oh, Master Luke.

LUKE
There's two more wrecked speeders back there. And I found this.

He tosses the helmet to Han.

THREEPIO
I'm afraid that Artoo's sensors can find no trace of Princess Leia.

HAN	 (gravely)
I hope she's alright.

Chewbacca growls, sniffing the air, then, with a bark, pushes off 
through the foliage.

                              HAN
What, Chewie? What? Chewie!

The others rush to keep up with the giant Wookiee. As he scoots along, 
Artoo whistles nervously.

71   EXT FOREST - DENSE FOLIAGE

The group has reached a break in the undergrowth. Chewie walks up to a 
tall stake planted in the ground. There is a dead animal hanging from 
it.

HAN
Hey, I don't get it.

The rest of the group joins the Wookiee around the stake.

HAN	 (cont)
Nah, it's just a dead animal, Chewie.

Chewie can't resist. He reaches toward the meat.

LUKE
Chewie, wa-wait!  Don't!

Too late. The Wookiee has already pulled the animal from the stake. 
SPROOING! The group finds itself hanging upside down in an Ewok net, 
suspended high above the clearing. Artoo lets out a wild series of 
beeps and whistles, and Chewie howls his regret. Their bodies are a 
jumble in the net. Han removes a Wookiee paw from his mouth.

HAN
Nice work. Great, Chewie! Great! Always thinking with your stomach.

LUKE
Will you take it easy? Let's just figure out a way to get out of this 
thing. 
(trying to free an arm) 
Han, can you reach my lightsaber?

HAN
Yeah, sure.

Artoo is at the bottommost point in the net. He extends his cutting 
appendage and begins slicing at the net. Han is trying to squeeze an 
arm past Threepio to get at Luke's lightsaber. The net continues to 
spin.

THREEPIO
Artoo, I'm not sure that's such a good idea. It's a very long dro-o-
op!!

Artoo has cut through and the entire group tumbles out of the net, 
crashing to the ground. As they regain their senses and sit up, they 
realize they are surrounded by dozens of Ewoks, each brandishing a long 
spear.

HAN
Wha--?  Hey!  Point that thing someplace else.

Han pushes the spear wielded by TEEBO out of his face and a second Ewok 
warrior comes up to argue with Teebo. The spear returns to Han's face. 
He grabs it angrily and starts to go for his laser pistol.

HAN
Hey!

LUKE
Han, don't. It'll be all right.

The Ewoks swarm through them and confiscate their weapons. Luke lets 
them take his lightsaber. Chewie growls at the furry critters.

LUKE
Chewie, give 'em your crossbow.

Artoo and Threepio are just untangling themselves. Threepio gets free 
of the net and sits up, rattled.

THREEPIO
Oh, my head. Oh, my goodness!

When the Ewoks see Threepio, they let out a gasp and chatter among 
themselves. Threepio speaks to them in their native tongue. The Ewok 
nearest him drops his spear and prostrates himself before the droid. In 
a moment, all the Ewoks have followed suit. Chewie lets out a puzzled 
bark. Han and Luke regard the bowed creatures in wonder. The Ewoks 
begin to chant at Threepio.

LUKE
Do you understand anything they're saying?

THREEPIO
Oh, yes, Master Luke!  Remember that I am fluent in over six million 
forms of
communication.

HAN
What are you telling them?

THREEPIO
Hello, I think... I could be mistaken. They're using a very primitive 
dialect.  But
I do believe they think I am some sort of god.

Chewbacca and Artoo think that's very funny. Han and Luke exchange 
"what next?" looks.

HAN
Well, why don't you use your divine influence and get us out of this?

THREEPIO
I beg your pardon, General Solo, but that just wouldn't be proper.

HAN
Proper?!

THREEPIO
It's against my programming to impersonate a deity.

Han moves toward Threepio threateningly.

HAN
Why, you--

Several Ewoks' spears are thrust in Han's face at the affront to their 
god. The Ewoks move in to protect their god and Han is surrounded by a 
menacing circle of spears, all aimed at him. He holds up his hands 
placatingly.

HAN
My mistake. He's an old friend of mine.

72   EXT FOREST - SERIES OF SHOTS

A procession of Ewoks winds through the ever-darkening forest. Their 
prisoners - Han, Luke, Chewie, and Artoo - are tied to long poles and 
wrapped in vines, cocoonlike.

Each pole is carried on the shoulders of several Ewoks. Behind the 
captives, Threepio is carried on a litter, like a king, by the 
remaining creatures.

73   EXT FOREST WALKWAY - MOON FOREST

The procession moves along a shaky, narrow, wooden walkway, high in the 
giant trees. It stops at the end of the walkway, which drops off into 
nothingness. On the other side of the abyss is a village of mud huts 
and rickety walkways, attached to the giant trees. The lead Ewok takes 
hold of a long vine and swings across to the village square; the other 
Ewoks follow suit.

74   EXT EWOK VILLAGE SQUARE

The procession winds its way into the village square. Mother Ewoks 
gather their babies up and scurry into their huts at the sight of the 
newcomers. The group stops before the largest hut.

Han, Luke, Chewie, and Artoo are still bound to their poles. Han is 
placed on a spit above what looks like a barbecue pit and the others 
are leaned against a tree nearby. Threepio's litter/throne is gently 
placed near the pit. He watches with rapt fascination. Han, Luke, and 
Chewie are less than fascinated.

HAN
I have a really bad feeling about this.

Chewie growls his concern.

Suddenly all activity stops as LOGRAY, the tribal Medicine Man, comes 
out of the big hut. He examines the captives carefully, goes to join 
Threepio, whose throne has been placed on an elevated platform. A 
larger, gray-haired Ewok, CHIEF CHIRPA, is examining Luke's lightsaber 
with great curiosity.

Logray speaks to Threepio and the assemblage of fuzzy Ewoks, pointing 
to the prisoners tied to the stakes. The Ewoks begin filling the pit 
under Han with firewood.

HAN
What did he say?

THREEPIO
I'm rather embarrassed, General Solo, but it appears you are to be the 
main course at a
banquet in my honor.

The drums start beating, and all the furry heads turn to the large hut. 
Leia emerges, wearing an animal-skin dress. She sees what's happening 
at the same moment the prisoners see her.

HAN and LUKE
Leia!

As she moves toward them, the Ewoks block her way with raised spears.

LEIA
Oh!

THREEPIO
Your Royal Highness.

Artoo and Chewie chime in with their welcome. Leia looks at the 
assembled Ewoks and sighs.

LEIA
But these are my friends. Threepio, tell them they must be set free.

Threepio talks to Chirpa and Logray, who listen and shake their heads 
negatively. The Medicine Man gestures toward the prisoners and barks 
some orders. Several Ewoks jump up and pile more wood on the barbecue 
with vigor. Leia trades frantic looks with Luke and Han .

HAN
Somehow, I got the feeling that didn't help us very much.

LUKE
Threepio, tell them if they don't do as you wish, you'll become angry 
and use your magic.

THREEPIO
But Master Luke, what magic? I couldn't possibly --

LUKE
Just tell them.

Threepio speaks to the Ewoks. The Ewoks are disturbed. Logray steps 
forward and challenges Threepio. Luke closes his eyes and begins to 
concentrate.

THREEPIO
You see, Master Luke; they didn't believe me. Just...

Now the litter/throne, with Threepio sitting upon it, rises from the 
ground. At first Threepio doesn't notice and keeps talking.

THREEPIO
... as I said they wouldn't. Wha-wha-what's happening! Oh! Oh, dear! 
Oh!

The Ewoks fall back in terror from the floating throne. Now Threepio 
begins to spin as though he were on a revolving stool, with Threepio 
calling out in total panic at his situation.

THREEPIO
Put me down! He-e-elp! Master Luke! Artoo! Somebody, somebody, help! 
Master Luke, Artoo! Artoo, quickly! Do something, somebody! Oh! Ohhh!

Chief Chirpa yells orders to the cowering Ewoks. They rush up and 
release the bound prisoners. Luke and Han enfold Leia in a group 
embrace. Luke notices the spinning Threepio, with Artoo beeping up at 
him, and slowly lowers the golden droid and the throne to the ground. 
Logray orders the little droid cut down. Artoo crashes to the ground. 
When the Ewoks set him upright, the little droid is fighting mad. Artoo 
beeps a blue streak at the nearest Ewok, and begins pursuing him, 
finally getting close enough to zap him with an electric charge. The 
Ewok jumps two feet in the air and runs away, screaming. A small group 
of Ewoks surround the giant Wookiee, scratching their heads and 
marveling at his height.

THREEPIO
Oh, oh, oh, oh! Thank goodness.

LUKE
Thanks, Threepio.

THREEPIO	 (still shaken)
I...I never knew I had it in me.

75   INT CHIEF'S HUT - COUNCIL OF ELDERS

A glowing fire dances in the center of the spartan, low-ceilinged room, 
creating a kaleidoscope of shadows on the walls. Along one side, a 
group of ten Ewok elders flank Chief Chirpa, who sits on his throne. 
The Rebels sit along the walls of the hut, with Threepio between the 
two groups and Wicket and Teebo off to one side.

Threepio is in the midst of a long, animated speech in the Ewok's 
squeaky native tongue. The Ewoks listen carefully and occasionally 
murmur comments to each other. Threepio points several times at the 
Rebel group and pantomimes a short history of the Galactic Civil War, 
mimicking the explosion and rocket sounds, imitating Imperial walkers. 
Throughout the long account, certain familiar names are distinguishable 
in English: Princess Leia, Artoo, Darth Vader, Death Star, Jedi, Obi-
Wan Kenobi. Artoo begins beeping excitedly at Threepio.

THREEPIO
Yes, Artoo. I was just coming to that.

Threepio continues with: Millennium Falcon, Cloud City, Vader, Han 
Solo, carbonite, Sarlacc, bringing the history up to the present time.

At the end of it, the Chief, Logray, and the elders confer, then nod in 
agreement. The Chief stands and makes a pronouncement.

The drums begin to sound, and all the Ewoks stand with a great cheer 
and screeches.

HAN
What's going on?

LEIA
I don't know.

Luke has been sharing the joy with smiling visage, but now something 
passes like a dark cloud through his consciousness. The others do not 
notice.

THREEPIO
Wonderful! We are now a part of the tribe.

Several of the little teddy bears run up and hug the Rebels.

HAN
Just what I always wanted.

Chewbacca is being enthusiastically embraced by an Ewok, while Wicket 
clings to Han's leg.

HAN	 (chuckles)
Well, short help is better than no help at all, Chewie. 
(to Wicket) 
Thank you. Okay.

THREEPIO
He says the scouts are going to show us the quickest way to the shield 
generator.

Chewie barks. Luke has drifted to the back of the hut. Now he wanders 
outside into the moonlight. Leia notices and follows.

HAN
Good. How far is it? Ask him. We need some fresh supplies, too. And try 
and get our weapons back.

Han pulls Threepio back as he keeps trying to translate.

HAN	 (cont)
And hurry up, will ya? I haven't got all day.

76   EXT EWOK VILLAGE - NIGHT

The walkway is deserted now. The windows of the little huts glow and 
flicker from the fires inside. The sounds of the forest fill the soft 
night air. Luke has wandered away from the Chief's hut and stands 
staring up at the Death Star. Leia finds him like that.

LEIA
Luke, what's wrong?

Luke turns and looks at her a long moment.

LUKE
Leia... do you remember your mother? Your real mother?

LEIA
Just a little bit. She died when I was very young.

LUKE
What do you remember?

LEIA
Just...images, really. Feelings.

LUKE
Tell me.

LEIA
(a little surprised at his insistence)
She was very beautiful. Kind, but...sad.
(looks up)
Why are you asking me all this?

He looks away.

LUKE
I have no memory of my mother. I never knew her.

LEIA
Luke, tell me. What's troubling you?

LUKE
Vader is here...now, on this moon.

LEIA	 (alarmed)
How do you know?

LUKE
I felt his presence. He's come for me. He can feel when I'm near. 
That's why I have to go.
(facing her)
As long as I stay, I'm endangering the group and our mission here.
(beat)
I have to face him.

Leia is distraught, confused.

LEIA
Why?

Luke moves close and his manner is gentle. And very calm.

LUKE
He's my father.

LEIA
Your father?

LUKE
There's more. It won't be easy for you to hear it, but you must. If I 
don't make it back, you're the only hope for the Alliance.

Leia is very disturbed by this. She moves away, as if to deny it.

LEIA
Luke, don't talk that way. You have a power I--I don't understand and 
could never have.

LUKE
You're wrong, Leia. You have that power too. In time you'll learn to 
use it as I have. The Force is strong in my family. My father has 
it...I have it...and...my sister has it.

Leia stares into his eyes. What she sees there frightens her. But she 
doesn't draw away. She begins to understand.

LUKE
Yes. It's you Leia.

LEIA
I know. Somehow...I've always known.

LUKE
Then you know why I have to face him.

LEIA
No! Luke, run away, far away. If he can feel your presence, then leave 
this place. I wish I could go with you.

LUKE
No, you don't. You've always been strong.

LEIA
But, why must you confront him?

LUKE
Because...there is good in him. I've felt it. He won't turn me over to 
the Emperor. I can save him. I can turn him back to the good side. I 
have to try.

They hold each other close and look at each other, brother and sister.

Leia holds back her tears as Luke slowly lets her go and moves away. He 
disappears onto the walkway that leads out of the village. Leia, bathed 
in moonlight, watches him go as Han comes out of the Chief's hut and 
comes over to her. Leia is crying, her body trembling. He realizes only 
now that she is crying.

HAN
Hey, what's goin' on?

Leia attempts to stifle her sobs and wipes her eyes.

LEIA
Nothing. I - just want to be alone for a little while.

HAN	 (angry)
Nothing?  Come on, tell me.  What's goin' on?

She looks up at him, struggling to control herself.

LEIA
I...I can't tell you.

HAN	 (loses his temper)
Did you tell Luke? Is that who you could tell?

LEIA
I...

HAN
Ahhh...

He starts to walk away, exasperated, then stops and walks back to her.

HAN
I'm sorry.

LEIA
Hold me.

Han gathers her tightly in his protective embrace.

77   EXT FOREST - IMPERIAL LANDING PLATFORM

An Imperial shuttle floats down from the Death Star and lands 
gracefully on the huge platform.

Now, an Imperial walker approaches the platform from the darkness of 
the forest. The whole outpost - platform, walkers, military - looks 
particularly offensive in the midst of this verdant beauty.

78   EXT IMPERIAL LANDING PLATFORM - LOWER DECK

Darth Vader walks down the ramp of the shuttle onto the platform, into 
an elevator, and appears on a ramp on a lower level. He walks toward 
another ramp exit and is met by two troopers and a commander with Luke, 
in binders, at their center. The young Jedi gazes at Vader with 
complete calm.

COMMANDER
This is a Rebel that surrendered to us. Although he denies it, I 
believe there may be more of them, and I request permission to conduct 
a further search of the area.

The commander extends his hand, revealing Luke's lightsaber.

COMMANDER
He was armed only with this.

Vader looks at Luke, turns away and faces the commander, taking the 
lightsaber from the commander's hand.

VADER
Good work, Commander. Leave us. Conduct your search and bring his 
companions to me.

COMMANDER
Yes, my Lord.

The officer and troops withdraw. Vader and Luke are left standing alone 
in the oddly tranquil beauty of the place. The sounds of the forest 
filter in upon them.

VADER
The Emperor has been expecting you.

LUKE
I know, father.

VADER
So, you have accepted the truth.

LURE
I've accepted the truth that you were once Anakin Skywalker, my father.

VADER	 (turning to face him)
That name no longer has any meaning for me.

LUKE
It is the name of your true self. You've only forgotten. I know there 
is good in you. The Emperor hasn't driven it from you fully. That is 
why you couldn't destroy me. That's why you won't bring me to your 
Emperor now.

Vader looks down from Luke to the lightsaber in his own black- gloved 
hand. He seems to ponder Luke's words.

VADER	 (indicating lightsaber)
I see you have constructed a new lightsaber.

Vader ignites the lightsaber and holds it to examine its humming, 
brilliant blade.

VADER
Your skills are complete. Indeed, you are powerful, as the Emperor has 
foreseen.

They stand for a moment, the Vader extinguishes the lightsaber.

LUKE
Come with me.

VADER
Obi-Wan once thought as you do.

Luke steps close to Vader, then stops. Vader is still.

VADER
You don't know the power of the dark side. I must obey my master.

LUKE
I will not turn...and you'll be forced to kill me.

VADER
If that is your destiny.

LUKE
Search your feelings, father. You can't do this. I feel the conflict 
within you. Let go
of your hate.

VADER
It is too late for me, son. The Emperor will show you the true nature 
of the Force. He is
your master now.

Vader signals to some distant stormtroopers. He and Luke stand staring 
at one another for a long moment.

LUKE
Then my father is truly dead.

79   EXT ENDOR - RIDGE OVERLOOKING SHIELD GENERATOR

Han, Leia, Chewbacca, the droids, Wicket, and another Ewok scout, 
PAPLOO, hide on a ridge overlooking the massive Imperial shield 
generator. At the base of the generator is an Imperial landing 
platform. Leia studies the installation.

LEIA
The main entrance to the control bunker's on the far side of that 
landing platform. This
isn't gonna be easy.

HAN
Hey, don't worry. Chewie and me got into a lot of places more heavily 
guarded than this.

Wicket and Paploo are chattering away in Ewok language. They speak to 
Threepio.

LEIA
What's he saying?

THREEPIO
He says there's a secret entrance on the other side of the ridge.

80   EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

The vast fleet hangs in space near a blue planet. A giant Rebel Star 
Cruiser is up at the front, but now the Millennium Flacon roars up to a 
spot ahead of it, tiny in comparison.

81   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando is in the pilot seat. His alien copilot, NIEN NUNB, takes some 
getting used to in the familiar environs of the Falcon's cockpit. Lando 
speaks into his comlink.

LANDO
Admiral, we're in position. All fighters accounted for.

ACKBAR 	(VO)
Proceed with the countdown. All groups assume attack coordinates.

Lando turns to his weird copilot.

LANDO
Don't worry, my friends are down there. They'll have that shield down 
on time...
(to himself) 
or this'll be the shortest offensive of all time.

The copilot flips some switches and grunts an alien comment.

ACKBAR	 (VO)
All craft, prepare to jump to hyperspace on my mark.

LANDO
All right. Stand by.

He pulls a lever, and the stars outside begin to streak.

82   EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

We are treated to an awesome sight: first the Millennium Falcon, then 
Ackbar's Star Cruiser, then, in large segments, the huge fleet ROARS 
INTO HYPERSPACE. And disappears.

83   EXT ENDOR - RIDGE OVERLOOKING CONTROL BUNKER

Han, Leia, Chewie, the droids, and their two Ewok guides, Wicket and 
Paploo, have reunited with the Rebel strike squad. The entire group is 
spread through the thick undergrowth. Below them is the BUNKER that 
leads into the generator. Four Imperial scouts, their speeder bikes 
parked nearby, keep watch over the bunker entrance. Chewie growls an 
observation, and Paploo chatters away to Han in Ewok language.

HAN
Back door, huh? Good idea.

Wicket and Paploo continue their Ewok conversation.

HAN	 (cont)
It's only a few guards. This shouldn't be too much trouble.

LEIA
Well, it only takes one to sound the alarm.

HAN	 (with self-confident grin)
Then we'll do it real quiet-like.

Threepio explains what is going on to Wicket and Paploo. The Ewoks 
chatter a moment between themselves. Then Paploo jumps up and scampers 
into the underbrush.

Threepio asks Wicket where Paploo went and is given a short reply.

THREEPIO
Oh! Oh, my. Uh, Princess Leia!

LEIA
Quiet.

THREEPIO
I'm afraid our furry companion has gone and done something rather rash.

LEIA
Oh, no.

84   EXT BUNKER - ENTRANCE

Paploo has slipped out of the undergrowth near where the Imperial 
scouts are lounging. He silently swings his furry ball of a body onto 
one of the scout's speeder bikes and begins flipping switches at 
random. Suddenly, the bike's engine fires up with a tremendous ROAR. 
Paploo grins and continues flipping switches. The scouts leap up in 
surprise.

85   EXT RIDGE

Han, Leia and company watch in distress. Chewie barks.

HAN 	(sighs)
There goes our surprise attack.

86   EXT BUNKER

The Imperial scouts race toward Paploo just as his speeder zooms into 
motion. Paploo hangs on by his paws and shoots away into the forest.

SCOUT
Look! Over there! Stop him!

Three of the Imperial scouts jump on their rocket bikes and speed away 
in pursuit. The fourth watches them go from his post at the door.

87   EXT RIDGE

Han, Leia, and Chewie exchange delighted looks.

HAN
Not bad for a little furball. There's only one left. You stay here. 
We'll take care of this.

Han and the Wookiee nod at each other and slip down toward the bunker. 
Threepio moves to stand next to Wicket and Artoo.

THREEPIO
I have decided that we shall stay here.

88   EXT FOREST

Paploo sails through the trees, more lucky than in control. It's scary, 
but he loves it. When the Imperial scouts pull within sight behind him 
and begin firing laser bolts, he decides he's had enough. As he rounds 
a tree, out of their sight, Paploo grabs a vine and swings up into the 
trees. A moment later, the scouts tear under him in pursuit of the 
still-flying, unoccupied bike.

89   EXT BUNKER

Han sneaks up behind the remaining Imperial scout, taps him on the 
shoulder and lets the scout chase him behind the bunker into the arms 
of the waiting Rebel strike team. Han returns to the front, and taps 
out a pattern on the bunker door's control panel. Everyone stands out 
of sight, police-style, as the door opens. Han and Leia peek inside. No 
sign of life. The group enters the bunker silently, leaving one lookout 
behind.

90   INT DEATH STAR - EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

The elevator opens. Vader and Luke enter the room alone. They walk 
across the dark space to stand before the throne, father and son side 
by side beneath the gaze of the Emperor. Vader bows to his Master.

EMPEROR
Welcome, young Skywalker. I have been expecting you.

Luke peers at the hooded figure defiantly. The Emperor then looks down 
at Luke's binders.

EMPEROR
You no longer need those.

The Emperor motions ever so slightly with his finger and Luke's binders 
fall away, clattering to the floor. Luke looks down at his own hands, 
free now to reach out and grab the Emperor's neck. He does nothing.

EMPEROR
Guards, leave us.

The red-cloaked guards turn and disappear behind the elevator.

EMPEROR	 (to Luke)
I'm looking forward to completing your training. In time you will call 
me Master.

LUKE
You're gravely mistaken. You won't convert me as you did my father.

The Emperor gets down from his throne and walks up very close to Luke. 
The Emperor looks into his eyes and, for the first time, Luke can 
perceive the evil visage within the hood.

EMPEROR
Oh, no, my young Jedi. You will find that it is you who are 
mistaken...about a great many things.

VADER
His lightsaber.

Vader extends a gloved hand toward the Emperor, revealing Luke's 
lightsaber. The Emperor takes it.

EMPEROR
Ah, yes, a Jedi's weapon. Much like your father's. By now you must know 
your father can never be turned from the dark side. So will it be with 
you.

LUKE
You're wrong. Soon I'll be dead...and you with me.

The Emperor laughs.

EMPEROR
Perhaps you refer to the imminent attack of your Rebel fleet.

Luke looks up sharply.

EMPEROR
Yes...I assure you we are quite safe from your friends here.

Vader looks at Luke.

LUKE
Your overconfidence is your weakness.

EMPEROR
Your faith in your friends is yours.

VADER
It is pointless to resist, my son.

The Emperor turns to face Luke.

EMPEROR	 (angry)
Everything that has transpired has done so according to my design. 
(indicates Endor)
Your friends up there on the Sanctuary Moon...

Luke reacts. The Emperor notes it.

EMPEROR	 (cont)
...are walking into a trap. As is your Rebel fleet! It was I who 
allowed the Alliance to know the location of the shield generator. It 
is quite safe from your pitiful little band. An entire legion of my 
best troops awaits them.

Luke's look darts from the Emperor to Vader and, finally, to the sword 
in the Emperor's hand.

EMPEROR
Oh...I'm afraid the deflector shield will be quite operational when 
your friends arrive.

91   INT BUNKER - MAIN CONTROL ROOM

Han, Leia, Chewie, and the Rebel strike team storm through a door and 
enter the main control room, taking all of the personnel prisoner.

HAN
All right! Up! Move! Come on! Quickly! Quickly, Chewie.

The Rebel troops herd the generator controllers away from their panels. 
Leia glances at one of the screens on the control panel.

LEIA
Han! Hurry! The fleet will be here any moment.

HAN
Charges!  Come on, come on!

Outside, Threepio watches nervously in the bushes as several more 
controllers and stormtroopers run into the bunker, leaving guards at 
the door.

THREEPIO	 (to Wicket)
Oh, my! They'll be captured!

Wicket chatters in Ewok language, and then takes off full steam into 
the forest.

THREEPIO
Wa-wait! Wait, come back! Artoo, stay with me.

Inside the bunker, Han looks up from setting charges as an Imperial 
commander enters.

COMMANDER
Freeze! You Rebel scum.

Han and Leia spin, to find dozens of Imperial weapons trained on them 
and their cohorts. A poised force of Imperial troops surround them. 
Even more pour into the room, roughly disarming the Rebel contingent. 
Han, Leia, and Chewie exchange looks. They're helpless.

92   EXT SPACE - ENDOR, DEATH STAR, REBEL FLEET

The Death Star and its Sanctuary Moon hang distant in space as the 
Rebel fleet comes out of hyperspace with an awesome roar. The 
Millennium Falcon and several Rebel fighters are at the front as the 
space armada bears down on its target.

93   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando flips switches, checks his screen, and speaks into the radio.

LANDO
All wings report in.

WEDGE
Red Leader standing by.

GRAY LEADER
Gray Leader standing by.

GREEN LEADER
Green Leader standing by.

WEDGE
Lock S-foils in attack positions.

94   INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

From the bridge of the Rebel Headquarters Frigate, Admiral Ackbar 
watches the fighters massing outside his viewscreen.

ACKBAR
May the Force be with us.

95   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando looks worriedly at his alien copilot, Nien Nunb, who points to 
the control panel and talks to Lando.

LANDO
We've got to be able to get some kind of a reading on that shield, up 
or down. Well, how
could they be jamming us if they don't know if we're coming.

Lando shoots a concerned look out at the approaching Death Star as the 
implications of what he's just said sink in. He hits a switch on his 
comlink.

LANDO
Break off the attack! The shield is still up.

RED LEADER	 (VO)
I get no reading. Are you sure?

LANDO
Pull up! All craft pull up!

The Falcon turns hard to the left. Out the window the stars and the 
Death Star move off right.

96   EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR SHIELD

The Falcon and the fighters of Red Squad veer off desperately to avoid 
the unseen wall.

97   INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Alarms are screaming and lights flashing as the huge ship changes 
course abruptly. Other ships in the fleet shoot by outside as the 
armada tries to halt its forward momentum.

ACKBAR
Take evasive action! Green Group, stick close to holding sector MV-7.

A Mon Calamari controller turns away from his screen and calls out to 
Ackbar, quite excited. The Admiral rushes over to the controller.

CONTROLLER
Admiral, we have enemy ships in sector 47.

On the screen can be seen the moon, Death Star, and the massive 
Imperial fleet. Ackbar moves to the comlink.

ACKBAR
It's a trap!

LANDO	 (over comlink)
Fighters coming in.

There is much excitement on the bridge as the attack begins.

The Millennium Falcon and several squads of Rebel fighters head into an 
armada of TIE fighters. The sky explodes as a fierce dogfight ensues in 
and around the giant Rebel cruisers.

REBEL PILOT
There's too many of them!

LANDO
Accelerate to attack speed! Draw their fire away from the cruisers.

WEDGE
Copy, Gold Leader.

The battle continues around the giant cruisers.

98   INT DEATH STAR - EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

Through the round window behind the Emperor's throne can be seen the 
distant flashes of the space battle in progress.

EMPEROR
Come, boy. See for yourself.

The Emperor is sitting in his throne, with Vader standing at his side. 
Luke moves to look through a small section of the window.

EMPEROR
From here you will witness the final destruction of the Alliance, and 
the end of your insignificant Rebellion.

Luke is in torment. He glances at his lightsaber sitting on the armrest 
of the throne. The Emperor watches him and smiles, touches the 
lightsaber.

EMPEROR
You want this, don't you? The hate is swelling in you now. Take your 
Jedi weapon. Use it. I am unarmed. Strike me down with it. Give in to 
your anger. With each passing moment, you make yourself more my 
servant.

Vader watches Luke in his agony.

LUKE
No!

EMPEROR
It is unavoidable. It is your destiny. You, like your father, are now 
mine!

99   EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han, Leia, Chewie, and the rest of the strike team are led out of the 
bunker by their captors. The surrounding area, deserted before, is now 
crowded with two-legged Imperial walkers and hundreds of Imperial 
troops. The situation looks hopeless.

STORMTROOPER
All right, move it! I said move it! Go on!

From the undergrowth beyond the clearing comes a wild series of beeps 
and whistles. 
And --

THREEPIO
Hello! I say, over there! Were you looking for me?

BUNKER COMMANDER
Bring those two down here!

STORMTROOPER
Let's go!

Artoo and Threepio are standing near one of the big trees. As six 
Imperial stormtroopers rush over to take them captive, the two droids 
duck out of sight behind the tree.

THREEPIO
Well, they're on their way. Artoo, are you sure this was a good idea?

STORMTROOPER
Freeze! Don't move!

THREEPIO
We surrender.

The stormtroopers come around the tree and find the two droids waiting 
quietly to be taken. As the Imperial troops move to do that, however, a 
band of Ewoks drops down from above and overpowers them.

THREEPIO
Ohhh! Stand back, Artoo.

In a nearby tree, an Ewok raises a horn to his lips and sounds the EWOK 
ATTACK CALL. All hell breaks loose as hundreds of Ewoks throw their 
fuzzy bodies into the fray against the assembled stormtroopers and 
their awesome two-legged walkers. Biker scouts dart about blasting 
Ewoks, only to be crushed by a volley of rocks tossed by Ewoks from the 
trees above.

In the confusion of the battle, Han and Leia break away and dive for 
the cover of the bunker door as explosions erupt around them. Han goes 
to the bunker door control panel.

LEIA
The code's changed. We need Artoo!

HAN
Here's the terminal.

LEIA	 (into comlink)
Artoo, where are you? We need you at the bunker right away.

Artoo and Threepio are hiding behind a log as the battle ragesaround 
them. Suddenly the stubby little astrodroid lets out a series of 
whistles and shoots off across the battlefield. Threepio, panicked, 
runs after him.

THREEPIO
Going? What do you mean, you're going. But-- but going where, Artoo? 
No, what! Artoo! Oh, this is no time for heroics. Come back!

Biker scouts race around and over the two droids, blasting away at the 
little Ewoks as the furries scurry for cover.

A group of Ewoks have moved a primitive catapult into position. They 
fire off a large boulder that hits one of the walkers. The walker turns 
and heads for the catapult, blasting away with both guns. The Ewoks 
abandon their weapons and flee in all directions. Just as the walker 
moves in to stomp the catapult, Ewoks drop vines restraining two huge 
logs that swing down and smash thewalker's head flat.

A line of Ewoks hang desperately to a vine that is hooked to a walker's 
foot. As the walker moves along, the fuzzy creatures are dragged 
behind.

Two speeder bikes chase Ewoks through the underbrush. As the scouts 
round a tree, they are knocked off their bikes by a vinetied between 
two trees.

100  EXT SPACE

The Falcon and other Rebel fighters are engaged in a ferocious combat 
with Imperial TIE fighters, the battle raging around thecruisers of the 
Rebel armada.

101  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT
Lando is in radio communication with the pilots of the other Rebel 
squads.

LANDO
Watch yourself, Wedge! Three from above!

WEDGE
Red Three, Red Two, pull in!

RED TWO
Got it!

RED THREE
Three of them coming in, twenty degrees!

WEDGE
Cut to the left! I'll take the leader! They're heading for the medical 
frigate.

Lando steers the Falcon through a complete flip, as his crew fires at 
the TIEs from the belly guns.

NAVIGATOR
Pressure's steady.

The copilot Nien Nunb chatters an observation.

LANDO
Only the fighters are attacking.  I wonder what those Star Destroyers 
are waiting for.

102  EXT SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET  

The giant Imperial Star Destroyer waits silently some distance from the 
battle. The Emperor's huge Super Star Destroyer rests in the middle of 
the fleet.

103  INT SUPER STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and two fleet commanders watch the battle at the huge 
window of the Super Star Destroyer bridge.

COMMANDER
We're in attack position now, sir.

PIETT
Hold here.

COMMANDER
We're not going to attack?

PIETT
I have my orders from the Emperor himself. He has something special 
planned for them. We only need to keep them from escaping.

104  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

The Emperor, Vader, and a horrified Luke watch the aerial battle 
fireworks out the window and on the viewscreens. Another Rebel ship 
explodes against the protective shield.

EMPEROR
As you can see, my young apprentice, your friends have failed. Now 
witness the firepower of this fully armed and operational battle 
station.
(into comlink)
Fire at will, Commander.

Luke, in shock, looks out across the surface of the Death Star to the 
Rebel fleet beyond.

105  INT DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Controllers pull back on several switches. Commander Jerjerrod stands 
over them.

JERJERROD
Fire!

106  INT DEATH STAR - BLAST CHAMBER

A button is pressed, which switches on a panel of lights. A hooded 
Imperial soldier reaches overhead and pulls a lever. A huge beam of 
light emanates from a long shaft. Two stormtroopers stand to one side 
at a control panel.

107  EXT DEATH STAR

The giant laser dish on the completed half of the Death Star begins to 
glow; Then a powerful beams shoots out toward the aerial battle.

108  EXT SPACE - AIR BATTLE

The air is thick with giant ships. In among them, Rebel X-wings 
dogfight with Imperial TIE fighters. Now an enormous Rebel cruiser is 
hit by the Death Star beam and is blown to dust.

The Millennium Falcon roars over CAMERA, followed closely byseveral TIE 
fighters.

109  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The ship is buffeted by the tremendous explosion of the Rebel cruiser. 
Lando and his copilot are stunned by the sight of the Death Star 
firepower.

LANDO
That blast came from the Death Star! That thing's operational! 
(into comlink)
Home One, this is Gold Leader.

110  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar stands amid the confusion on the wide bridge and speaks into the 
comlink.

ACKBAR
We saw it. All craft prepare to retreat.

LANDO
You won't get another chance at this, Admiral.

ACKBAR
We have no choice, General Calrissian. Our cruisers can't repel 
firepower of that magnitude.

LANDO
Han will have that shield down. We've got to give him more time.

111  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Artoo and Threepio make it to the door, as Han and Leia provide cover 
fire.

THREEPIO
We're coming!

HAN
Come on! Come on!

THREEPIO
Oh, Artoo, hurry!

The little droid moves to the terminal and plugs in his computer arm. A 
large explosion hits near Artoo, knocking him head over heels, finally 
landing on his feet. The stubby astrodroid's head is spinning and 
smoldering. Suddenly there is a loud SPROOING and Han and Leia turn 
around to see Artoo with all his compartment doors open, and all of his 
appendages sticking out; water and smoke spurt out of the nozzles in 
his body. Han rushes to the terminal, as Threepio rushes to his wounded 
companion.

THREEPIO
My goodness! Artoo, why did you have to be so brave?

HAN
Well, I suppose I could hotwire this thing.

LEIA
I'll cover you.

Ewoks in handmade, primitive hanggliders drop rocks onto the 
stormtroopers, divebombing their deadly adversaries.  One is hit in the 
wing with laser fire and crashes. A walker lumbers forward, shooting 
laser blasts at frantic Ewoks running in all directions.  Two Ewoks are 
struck down by laser blasts.  One tries to awaken his friend, then 
realizes that he is dead.

112  EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR

The Rebel fleet continues to be picked off, from one side by the Death 
Star's deadly beam, from the other by the rampaging Imperial Star 
Destroyers.

113  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando steers the Falcon wildly through an obstacle course of floating 
giants. He's been yelling into the comlink.

LANDO	 (desperately)
Yes! I said closer! Move as close as you can and engage those Star 
Destroyers at point-
blank range.

ACKBAR
At that close range, we won't last long against those Star Destroyers.

LANDO
We'll last longer then we will against that Death Star...and we might 
just take a few of
them with us.

The Rebel cruisers move very close to the Imperial Star Destroyers and 
begin to blast away at point-blank range. Tiny fighters race across the 
giant surfaces, against a backdrop of laser fire.

The control tower of a Star Destroyer is under attack.

REBEL PILOT
She's gonna blow!

Y-WING PILOT
I'm hit!

The damaged Y-wing plummets toward the Star Destroyer, and crashes into 
the control tower, exploding.

114  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Out of the window and on the view screens, the Rebel fleet is being 
decimated in blinding explosions of light and debris. But in here there 
is no sound of battle. The Emperor turns to Luke.

EMPEROR
Your fleet has lost. And your friends on the Endor moon will not 
survive. There is no escape, my young apprentice. The Alliance will 
die...as will your friends.

Luke's eyes are full of rage. Vader watches him.

EMPEROR
Good. I can feel your anger. I am defenseless.  Take your weapon! 
Strike me down with all your hatred, and your journey towards the dark 
side will be complete.

Luke can resist no longer. The lightsaber flies into his hand. He 
ignites it in an instant and swings at the Emperor. Vader's lightsaber 
flashes into view, blocking Luke's blow before it can reach the 
Emperor. The two blades spark at contact. Luke turns to fight his 
father.

115  EXT FOREST

The battle rages on. Stormtroopers fire on Ewoks with sophisticated 
weapons while their furry little adversaries sneak up behind the 
Imperial troopers and bash them over the head with large clubs.

A walker marches through the undergrowth blasting Ewoks as it goes. An 
Ewok warrior gives the signal, and a pile of logs is cut loose. The 
logs tumble under the walker's feet, causing it to slip and slide until 
it finally topples over with a great crash.

A scout bike races past and is lassoed with a heavy vine. The other end 
of the vine is tied to a tree, and the bike swings around in ever-
tightening circles until it runs out of rope and
crashes into the trees with a huge explosion.

Chewie swings on a vine to the roof of one of the walkers. Two Ewoks 
cling to him. They land with a thud on the top of the lurching machine, 
then hang on for dear life. One of the Ewoks peeks through the window.

WALKER PILOT #1
Look!

PILOT #2
Get him off of there!

The walker pilot opens the hatch to see what's going on. He is yanked 
out and tossed overboard before he can scream. The two Ewoks jump into 
the cockpit and knock the second pilot unconscious. The Ewoks are 
thrown violently as the mighty machine careens out of control. Outside, 
Chewie is almost knocked overboard; he sticks his head into the hatch 
with a series of angry barks. The Ewoks are too busy and frightened to 
listen to the Wookiee's complaint. Chewie slips inside the walker.

Chewbacca's walker moves through the forest, firing laser blasts at 
unsuspecting stormtroopers, and destroying other Imperial walkers. The 
Ewoks shout and cheer as the giant machine helps turn the tide of the 
battle in their favor.

116  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han works furiously at the control panel; wires spark as he attempts to 
hotwire the door. He motions to Leia, who is blasting away at some 
stormtroopers.

HAN
I think I got it. I got it!

The three wires spark as the connection is made. With a LOUD WHOOSH, a 
second blast door crashes down in front of the first.

Han frowns and turns back to the wires again. Leia exchanges shots with 
stormtroopers in the bushes, then suddenly cries out in pain, her 
shoulder hit by a laser blast.

THREEPIO
Oh, Princess Leia, are you all right?

HAN
Let's see.

LEIA
It's not bad.

STORMTROOPER	 (OS)
Freeze!

They freeze.

THREEPIO
Oh, dear.

STORMTROOPER
Don't move!

Leia holds her laser gun ready, behind Han, out of view of the two 
stormtroopers moving toward them. Han and Leia's eyes lock; the moment 
seems suspended in time.

HAN
I love you.

Another shared look between them, as she smiles up at Han.

LEIA
I know.

STORMTROOPER
Hands up! Stand up!

Han stands up slowly and turns, revealing the gun in Leia's hand. She 
disposes of the stormtroopers in a flash. As Han turns back toward 
Leia, he looks up to see a giant walker approach and stand before him, 
its deadly weapons aimed right at him.

HAN	 (to Leia)
Stay back.

The hatch on top of the walker opens and Chewie sticks his head out and 
barks triumphantly.

HAN
Chewie!  Get down here!  She's wounded!  No, wait....  I got an idea.

117  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Luke and Vader are engaged in a man-to-man duel of lightsabers even 
more vicious then the battle on Bespin. But the young Jedi has grown 
stronger in the interim, and now the advantage shifts to him. Vader is 
forced back, losing his balance, and is knocked down the stairs. Luke 
stands at the top of the stairs, ready to attack.

EMPEROR (laughing)
Good.  Use your aggressive feelings, boy!  Let the hate flow through 
you.

Luke looks momentarily toward the Emperor, then back to Vader, and 
realizes he is using the dark side. He steps back, turns off his 
lightsaber, and relaxes, driving the hate from his being.

VADER
Obi-Wan has taught you well.

LUKE
I will not fight you, father.

Vader walks back up the stairs to Luke.

VADER
You are unwise to lower your defenses.

Vader attacks, forcing Luke on the defensive. The young Jedi leaps in 
an amazing reverse flip up to the safety of the catwalk overhead. Vader 
stands below him.

LUKE
Your thoughts betray you, father. I feel the good in you...the 
conflict.

VADER
There is no conflict.

LUKE
You couldn't bring yourself to kill me before, and I don't believe 
you'll destroy me
now.

VADER
You underestimate the power of the dark side. If you will not fight, 
then you will meet
your destiny.

Vader throws the laser sword and it cuts through the supports holding 
the catwalk, then returns to Vader's hand. Luke tumbles to the ground 
in a shower of sparks and rolls out of sight under the Emperor's 
platform. Vader moves to find him.

EMPEROR	 (laughs)
Good.  Good.

118  EXT SPACE - AIR BATTLE

The two armadas, like their sea-bound ancestors, blast away at each 
other in individual point-blank confrontations. A Star Destroyer 
explodes. The Rebel victor limps away, its back half alive with a 
series of minor explosions. The Rebel cruiser manages to move in next 
to a second Star Destroyer before it explodes completely, taking the 
Imperial Star Destroyer with it. The Falcon and several fighters attack 
one of the larger Imperial ships.

LANDO
Watch out. Squad at .06.

REBEL PILOT
I'm on it, Gold Leader.

WEDGE
Good shot, Red Two.

LANDO
Now...come on, Han, old buddy. Don't let me down.

119  INT BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM

Controllers watch the main viewscreen on which a vague figure of an 
Imperial walker pilot can be seen. There is a great deal of static and 
interference.

HAN/PILOT	 (VO)
It's over, Commander. The Rebels have been routed. They're fleeing into 
the woods. We
need reinforcements to continue the pursuit.

The controllers cheer.

CONTROL ROOM COMMANDER
Send three squads to help. Open the back door.

SECOND COMMANDER
Yes, sir.

120  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

As the door to the bunker opens and the Imperial troops rush out, 
they're surprised to find themselves surrounded by Rebels, their 
weapons pointed at them. Ewoks holding bows and arrows appear on the 
roof of the bunker. The Imperial troops throw down their guns
as Han and Chewie rush inside the bunker with explosive charges.

121  INT BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM

Han, Chewie, and several troops rush into the control room and plant 
explosive charges on the control panels and rush out.

HAN
Throw me another charge.

122  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Vader stalks the low-ceilinged area on the level below the throne, 
searching for Luke in the semi-darkness, his lightsaber held ready.

VADER
You cannot hide forever, Luke.

LUKE
I will not fight you.

VADER
Give yourself to the dark side. It is the only way you can save your 
friends. Yes, your
thoughts betray you. Your feelings for them are strong. Especially 
for...

Vader stops and senses something. Luke shuts his eyes tightly, in 
anguish.

VADER
Sister! So...you have a twin sister. Your feelings have now betrayed 
her, too. Obi-Wan
was wise to hide her from me. Now his failure is complete. If you will 
not turn to the dark
side, then perhaps she will.

LUKE
Never-r-r!

Luke ignites his lightsaber and screams in anger, rushing at hisfather 
with a frenzy we have not seen before. Sparks fly as Luke and Vader 
fight in the cramped area. Luke's hatred forces Vader to retreat out of 
the low area and across a bridge overlooking a vast elevator shaft. 
Each stroke of Luke's sword drives his father further toward defeat.

The Dark Lord is knocked to his knees, and as he raises his sword to 
block another onslaught, Luke slashes Vader's right hand off at the 
wrist, causing metal and electronic parts to fly from the mechanical 
stump. Vader's sword clatters uselessly away, over the
edge of the platform and into the bottomless shaft below. Luke moves 
over Vader and holds the blade of his sword to the Dark Lord's throat. 
The Emperor watches with uncontrollable, pleased agitation.

EMPEROR
Good! Your hate has made you powerful. Now, fulfill your destiny and 
take your father's
place at my side!

Luke looks at his father's mechanical hand, then to his own mechanical, 
black-gloved hand, and realizes how much he is becoming like his 
father. He makes the decision for which he has spent a lifetime in 
preparation. Luke steps back and hurls his lightsaber away.

LUKE
Never! I'll never turn to the dark side. You've failed, Your Highness. 
I am a Jedi,
like my father before me.

The Emperor's glee turns to rage.

EMPEROR
So be it...Jedi.

123  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han and several of the fighters run out of the bunker and race across 
the clearing.

HAN
Move! Move!

A shock wave knocks them flat as the bunker explodes, followed by a 
spectacular display as the huge shield-generator radar dish explodes 
along with the bunker.

124  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar, sitting in his control chair, speaks into the radio.

ACKBAR
The shield is down! Commence attack on theDeath Star's main reactor.

LANDO
We're on our way. Red Group, Gold Group, all fighters follow me. 
(laughs)
Told you they'd do it!

The Falcon, followed by several smaller Rebel fighters, heads toward 
the unfinished superstructure of the Death Star.

125  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Luke stands still, as the Emperor reaches the bottom of thestairs. The 
Emperor's laughter has turned to anger. He raises his arms toward Luke.

EMPEROR
If you will not be turned, you will be destroyed.

Blinding bolts of energy, evil lightning, shoot from the Emperor's 
hands at Luke. Even in his surprise, the young Jedi tries to use the 
Force to deflect them. At first he is half successful, but after a 
moment the bolts of energy are coming with such speed and power the 
young Jedi shrinks before them, his knees buckling. The wounded Vader 
struggles to his feet, and moves to stand at his master's side.

EMPEROR
Young fool...only now, at the end, do you understand.

Luke is almost unconscious beneath the continuing assault of the 
Emperor's lightning. He clutches a canister to keep from falling into 
the bottomless shaft as the bolts tear through him.

EMPEROR
Your feeble skills are no match for the power of the dark side. You 
have paid the price for
your lack of vision.

Luke writhes on the floor in unbearable pain, reaching weakly up toward 
where Vader stands watching.

LUKE	 (groans)
Father, please. Help me.

Again Vader stands, watching Luke. He looks at his master, the Emperor, 
then back to Luke on the floor.

EMPEROR
Now, young Skywalker...you will die.

Although it would not have seemed possible, the outpouring of bolts 
from the Emperor's fingers actually increases in intensity, the sound 
screaming through the room. Luke's body writhes in pain.

Vader grabs the Emperor from behind, fighting for control of the robed 
figure despite the Dark Lord's weakened body and gravely weakened arm. 
The Emperor struggles in his embrace, his bolt-shooting hands now 
lifted high, away from Luke. Now the white lightning arcs back to 
strike at Vader. He stumbles with his load as the sparks rain off his 
helmet and flow down over his black cape. He holds his evil master high 
over his head and walks to the edge of the abyss at the central core of 
the throne room. With one final burst of his once awesome strength, 
Darth Vader hurls the Emperor's body into the bottomless shaft.

The Emperor's body spins helplessly into the void, arcing as it falls 
into the abyss. Finally, when the body is far down the shaft, it 
explodes, creating a rush of air through the room.Vader's cape is 
whipped by the wind and he staggers, and collapses toward the 
bottomless hole. Luke crawls to his father's side and pulls him away 
from the edge of the abyss to safety. Both the young Jedi and the giant 
warrior are too weak to move.

126  EXT/INT - SPACE BATTLE - FIGHTER AND DEATH STAR

Rebel fighters follow the Falcon across the surface of the Death Star 
to the unfinished portion, where they dive into the superstructure of 
the giant battle station, followed by many TIE fighters.

WEDGE
I'm going in.

LANDO
Here goes nothing.

Three X-wings lead the chase through the ever-narrowing shaft, followed 
by the Falcon and four other fighters, plus TIE fighters who 
continually fire at the Rebels. Lights reflect off the pilot's faces as 
they race through the dark shaft.

LANDO
Now lock onto the strongest power source. It should be the power 
generator.

WEDGE
Form up. And stay alert. We could run out of space real fast.

The fighters and the Falcon race through the tunnel, still pursued by 
the TIE fighters. One of the X-wings is hit from behind and explodes.

LANDO
Split up and head back to the surface. See if you can get a few of 
those TIE fighters to
follow you.

PILOT
Copy, Gold Leader.

The Rebel ships peel off pursued by three of the TIE's, while Lando and 
Wedge continue through the main tunnel. It narrows, and the Falcon 
scrapes the side dangerously. Two other TIE fighters continue to blast 
away at them.

LANDO
That was too close.

Nien Nunb agrees. The battle between the Rebel and Imperial fleet rages 
on. Several cruisers fire at the giant Super Star Destroyer.

127  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

ACKBAR
We've got to give those fighters more time. Concentrate all fire on 
that Super Star Destroyer.

X-wings pilots head across the surface of the huge battleship.

128  INT VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and a commander stand at the window, looking out to the 
battle. They look concerned.

CONTROLLER
Sir, we've lost our bridge deflector shield.

PIETT
Intensify the forward batteries. I don't want anything to get through.

The commander is looking out of the window where a damaged Rebel 
fighter is out of control and heading directly toward the bridge.

PIETT
Intensify forward firepower!

COMMANDER
It's too late!

The Rebel pilot screams as his ship hits the Star Destroyer, causing a 
huge explosion. The giant battle ship loses control, crashes into the 
Death Star, and explodes.

129  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

There is excitement on the bridge as the battle rages on all sides. 
They cheer as the giant Star Destroyer blows up.

130  INT DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY

Chaos. For the first time, the Death Star is rocked by explosions as 
the Rebel fleet, no longer backed against a wall, zooms over, unloading 
a heavy barrage. Imperial troops run in all directions, confused and 
desperate to escape.

In the midst of this uproar, Luke is trying to carry the enormous 
deadweight of his father's weakening body toward an Imperial shuttle. 
Finally, Luke collapses from the strain. The explosions grow louder as 
Vader draws him closer.

VADER	 (a whisper)
Luke, help me take this mask off.

LURE
But you'll die.

VADER
Nothing can stop that now. Just for once... let me look on you with my 
own eyes.

Slowly, hesitantly, Luke removes the mask from his father's face. There 
beneath the scars is an elderly man. His eyes do not focus. But the 
dying man smiles at the sight before him.

ANAKIN	 (very weak)
Now...go, my son. Leave me.

LUKE
No. You're coming with me. I can't leave you here. I've got to save 
you.

ANAKIN
You already have, Luke. You were right about me. Tell your sister...you 
were right.

LUKE
Father...I won't leave you.

Darth Vader, Anakin Skywalker...Luke's father, dies.

A huge explosion rocks the docking bay. Slowly, Luke rises and, half 
carrying, half dragging the body of his father, stumbles toward a 
shuttle.

131  EXT DEATH STAR

The Millennium Falcon leads a swerving bomb run through the immense 
superstructure of the half-built Death Star. The Rebel Star Cruisers 
outside continually bombard the huge station. And each direct hit is 
answered by resonating, chain-reaction explosions within the station 
itself.

132  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT AND GUN PORTS

Lando's crew fires away at the pursuing TIE fighters as the dashing 
Baron of Bespin and his alien copilot home in on the main reactor 
shaft. It is awesome. A lone X-wing is just in front of the Falcon.

WEDGE
There it is!

LANDO
All right, Wedge. Go for the power regulator on the north tower.

WEDGE
Copy, Gold Leader. I'm already on my way out.

The X-wing heads for the top of the huge reactor and fires several 
proton torpedoes at the power regulator, causing a series of small 
explosions.

The Falcon heads for the main reactor, and when it is dangerously 
close, Lando fires the missiles, which shoot out of the Falcon with a 
powerful roar, and hit directly at the center of the main reactor.

He maneuvers the Falcon out of the winding superstructure just ahead of 
the continuing chain of explosions.

133  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar and other Mon Calamari lean on the railing of the bridge, 
watching the large screen showing the Death Star in the main briefing 
room.

ACKBAR
Move the fleet away from the Death Star.

134  EXT DEATH STAR

An Imperial shuttle, with Luke alone in the cockpit, rockets out of the 
main docking bay as that entire section of the Death Star is blown 
away.

Finally, just as it looks like the Falcon will not make it, Lando 
expertly pilots the craft out of the exploding superstructure and 
whizzes toward the Sanctuary Moon, only a moment before the Death Star 
supernovas into oblivion.

135  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando and Nien Nunb laugh and cheer in relief.

136  EXT ENDOR FOREST

Han and Leia, Chewie, the droids, the Rebel troops, and the Ewoks all 
look to the sky as the Death Star reveals itself in a final flash of 
self-destruction. They all cheer.

THREEPIO
They did it!

Han looks town from the sky to Leia, a look of concern on his face. 
Leia continues to look at the sky as though listening for a silent 
voice.

HAN
I'm sure Luke wasn't on that thing when it blew.

LEIA
He wasn't. I can feel it.

HAN
You love him, don't you?

Leia smiles, puzzled.

LEIA
Yes.

HAN
All right. I understand. Fine. When he comes back, I won't get in the 
way.

She realizes his misunderstanding.

LEIA
Oh. No, it's not like that at all. He's my brother.

Han is stunned by this news. She smiles, and they embrace.

137  EXT ENDOR FOREST - NIGHT

Luke sets a torch to the logs stacked under a funeral pyre where his 
father's body lies, again dressed in black mask and helmet. He stands, 
watching sadly, as the flames leap higher to consume Darth Vader -- 
Anakin Skywalker.

In the sky above, fireworks explode and Rebel fighters zoom above the 
forest.

138  EXT EWOK VILLAGE SQUARE - NIGHT

A huge bonfire is the centerpiece of a wild celebration. Rebels and 
Ewoks rejoice in the warm glow of firelight, drums beating, singing, 
dancing, and laughing in the communal language of victory and 
liberation.

Lando runs in and is enthusiastically hugged by Han and Chewie. Then, 
finally, Luke arrives and the friends rush to greet and embrace him. 
They stand close, this hardy group, taking comfort in each other's 
touch, together to the end.

Rebels and Ewoks join together in dancing and celebration. The original 
group of adventurers watch from the sidelines. Only Luke seems 
distracted, alone in their midsts, his thoughts elsewhere.

He looks off to the side and sees three shimmering, smiling figures at 
the edge of the shadows: Ben Kenobi, Yoda, and Anakin Skywalker.

FADE OUT

END CREDITS OVER STAR FIELD
